

A
Tour, In 1787,
From
London, To The
Western Highlands Of
Scotland. Including Excursions to the Lakes of
Westmorland And Cumberland,
With
Minute Descriptions of the principal Seats, Castles, Ruins,& c. throughout the Tour.
London:
Printed for L. Davis, Holborn; Mes srs. Robson and Clarke, New Bond Street; W. Lowndes, Fleet Street; H. Gardner, Strand; and J. Walker, Paternoster Row.
From hence an excellent road soon brought us to a very striking prospect of the sea on our left hand, with the ancient county town of Lancaster( or Loncaster from the River Lone,) nobly situated in front; the elevated site of its strong castle gives the mind a most magnificent idea of this important place; and what renders this scene still more striking is the church, a fine gothic building, placed on the same elevation, which, from some points of view, forms one group with the castle.
There is little doubt but this town has been famous in the annals of history and antiquity; and its late improvements are very considerable, several new streets have been added, besides a handsome chapel, and other public edifices; the quay is tolerably good, and the inhabitants are busied in a fine trade to Guinea and the West Indies. Besides a fair old bridge over this River Lone, they are now finishing a very handsome new one of five equal elliptical arches; the whole length is about 549 feet, its style of building plain and elegant; it is just made pas sable, and, when complete, will be superior to most in England. In the evening we went to look at Mr. Gray's view of the vale of Lonsdale, from a field about three miles on the Queen's Road. It is certainly a very beautiful landscape, but more worthy the minute attention of an artist, than to strike with raptures the eye of a traveller. I think there are great beauties to the right of this station unnoticed by either Gray or West.
Leaving this place, the next object of our tour was to visit those grand scenes, the lakes of Westmorland and Cumberland. But these having been the subjects of separate volumes by Mr. West and Gilpin, I shall not expatiate much upon them, but refer occasionally to the former as a true and faithful guide.
About ten o'clock in the morning of August the 7th, the sun beaming delightfully, and promising us a most agreeable day, we crossed the sands from Hest Bank without any other guide than a neces sary driver on a fore-horse to our gig. On entering this extensive plain of eleven miles we were then going to traverse, and on the left seeing a gra - dual increase of the same surface till the eye is lost upon the withdrawn ocean, and on the right, contrasted to it, a multitude of grand mountainous objects, Ingleborough, Warton Cragg,& c. so accurately and well described in page 27 of West. Such a new and magnificent scene could not fail to impress our minds with ideas of delight and astonishment. These sands too are rendered lively by the pas sing and repas sing of men, carriages, and droves of cattle, all anxious to embrace this one opportunity in 24 hours. But what renders this scenery more enchanting and wonderful, is to observe at the feet of these formidable mountains seats, villages, and cots, surrounded with most excellent wood and verdure, as if nature, wishing to give both food for the mind and body in great abundance, had cleared the fore-ground of every useless atom to make it rich and fertile, and had thrown her craggy matter in heaps of wildest order to form the back ground of the landscape more sublime and perfect.
 Uncle to the Duke. This seat, I think, belonged to the Prestons.
Having pas sed these sands to Carklane, we next came to Flockborough, the small remains of a market town. Here, instead of pursuing the common road to Leven Sands, we deviated to the right about a mile through a village, and by a large cotton mill belonging to a company of Lancashire Gentlemen, in order to see Holker Hall, the seat of Lord George Cavendish, which we found nothing remarkable in its building, but admirable in point of situation: in the midst of a beautiful park, well wooded, the boundaries one way sloping towards the sea, the other ascending to the feet of inacces sible rocks and mountains. Leaving this well adorned spot, we now entered upon the sands again that lead directly three miles over to Ulverston. This pas sage is very similar to what we had just left behind, the surrounding objects beautiful as the former, except that now being advanced fifteen miles nearer, the back ground of Alpenine heights thrown rudely on each other, became more horribly magnificent.
Ulverston is a neat market town at the bottom of immense hills, near the water side, and is properly called the London of Furness. About a mile and a half to the south of this stands Conishead priory, richly surrounded with woods and sloping groves. As soon as we had taken a comfortable refreshment, the afternoon being uncommonly favourable, we rode to this delicious place, which did not fail to answer our most sanguine expectations. The house is not very large, but admirably adapted to its singular situation; the plan on which the grounds and gardens are so highly finished is worthy the imitation of every adorner of nature. To enter into a minute description of this Eden of the north would be here superfluous, and only humbly walking in the foot-steps of one who has made this a prime feature in his tour. ( Vide West, pages 42, 43,& c.) The gardener who attended us through this beauteous scenery was very civil and intelligent, and mentioned several intended improvements with great satisfaction. The present owner of this sweet spot greatly shews his taste by still continuing what his predeces sor had so nobly begun. Fortune he enjoys equal to every execution of this kind. During our stay here, we saw that change take place in the surrounding ocean which must appear most wonderful to those who are unacquainted with the mysterious laws of its irresistible motion, and cannot fail to affect every observer in a very sublime and awful manner. That plain, which but a few hours before was but a sea of sand, we now beheld immersed in fathoms of water.
Having spent this evening so much to our satisfaction, we now retired to our Inn, the Sun, which, though in point of building not very elegant or accommodating, yet the neatness of provisions and cookery exceeded any in a small way we had before experienced.
The next morning, which was glorious as the preceding, we went the ride recommended by Mr. West, to see the magnificent ruins of Furness Abbey, which are worth much attention, and cannot fail giving infinite satisfaction to every beholder. The sequestered vale in which this monastic edifice once reared its sacred pile, is truly eligible, and best adapted to a life of contemplation.
Here we gazed some time with respect and reverence on the havock which time had made upon this surprizing structure. And how erroneous soever those notions of religion may be esteemed, that thus called mankind, from the social duties of the world, to put on this rigid and morose garb of piety; yet secretly we must admire that fervent zeal which caused these wonderful exertions of human art to raise up buildings whose beauty and magnificence might well accord with the ideas of that supreme Being to whom they were dedicated. Full of such ardent reflections on the various prejudices of the world, and the undurable works of man, we returned the same rough and unpleasant road, the motto" sic transit gloria mundi" continuing uppermost the greatest part of the way; during which nothing curious or entertaining attracts the notice of the traveller, except an abundance of small unweildy carriages pas sing and repas sing with the produce of the neighbouring iron mines to the shipping at Barrow, about three miles beyond the Abbey. I enquired into the reason of this heavy construction of their carts, and found it neces sary that they should be strong to bear the uncommon burden of this ore; but it is inexcusable in the common business of the country, and only ignorance or prejudice that can be the cause of incumbering one horse with wheels that are scarce moveable, so low and mas sy is their uncouth form. It was in this morning's excursion, that I first was struck with the simplicity of northern manners, where every native that pas ses by salutes you with a goodmorrow, in such a familiar voice of welcome, as cannot fail to please; and which savours more of sincerity and good will, than the more studied refinements and gracious smiles of the beau monde. After having again regaled on the neat and palatable repast of our hostess, we bid adieu to this pleasant little town, and proceeded eight miles by Lovick Bridge to Coniston Water.
About half way, on a gently rising hill, we first caught sight of this pleasing lake, which we traced as directed in pages 47, 48,& c. of our guide. Station the first; a little above the village of Nithwaite we enjoyed the several pictures he very accurately points out. We also observed farther on at his second station, the variegated scenes he there describes; the bays, the promontaries, the diversified groups of sequestered cots, green slopes and wood crowned eminences, together with the range of naked mountains, clad in sable hue, all conspire to render this scenery truly picturesque and pleasing; Coniston Hall, and the village peeping amidst surrounding foliage, have a charming effect at the north margin of the lake.
 Belonging fo the Flemings.
His third station cannot very readily be found out after the manner in which he has expres sed it, at least we were greatly confused in following his direction. If I might be permitted to elucidate this erroneous pas sage, it should be by altering his direction thus: after having observed the yew tree on the common, and the tree on the peninsula which he describes, then pass through the first gate, and continue on the road to a second, which opening you will see the small rivulet and bridge, he mentions, a few yards before you, and not in the grove, for that is all along inclosed by a flight hedge to the right. Proceed about one hundred yards farther and the fragment of rock presents itself near the road in the water. Here we had a very satisfactory view of the crystal lake to its greatest extent, and the Westmorland fells towering on the opposite shore have a noble appearance. The views from every part of Coniston Water must be allowed beautiful, yet they give an agreeable satisfaction to the mind rather than strike the eye with ravishment and wonder. The char here are esteemed particularly fine, and are taken both late and early in the season. Thus having satisfied this part of our curiosity we pursued the road about four miles rather inclining to the east, which brought us to the small town of Hawkshead, the place appointed for this night's abode; but the evening was too far advanced to permit our enjoying the fine prospect, which the several hills we pas sed over would otherwise have afforded. We found a comfortable en - tertainment at the Red Lion, the only house of resort for travellers; and the next morning continuing bright and charming as before, we set off about seven for the ferry on Windermere lake, and pas sing over a bridge about half a mile down the vale, came upon the margin of Esthwaite Water; a sweet little oval lake, two miles long and one broad. Hear the serenity of the morning afforded us the most delightful ride imaginable, for not a breeze stirring, the watery surface became a perfect mirror, and reflected the inverted landscape more softly coloured than ever art or nature had before presented to our view. Indeed the neat village of Hawkshead, with its milk-white tower, and several cots and groves which project this way, together with the over-hanging trees, and mountains, form a most compleat group for the pencil of the Artist. Quitting this lovely landscape we soon gain - ed the summit of the hill which first presents that glory of these lakes, Windermere Water; hence continuing round a rocky mountain northwards, we came without difficulty to Mr. West's first station; and mounting the craggy summit, we were delighted with innumerable beauties of lake, wood and island, diversified in all the various windings and intersections of wonderful nature, surrounded by all the grandeur of near and distant mountains hanging one upon another in most surprizing forms; but not contented with this elevated situation, we ascended the jutting rock above with much difficulty, and reaped no advantage from our labor; these giddy heights only adding horror to the scene without its former softened beauties; from whence descending even on our hands and knees, we were glad to find ourselves again on terra firma, and pursuing the road directly to the ferry, we were soon conveyed across this narrow part of the lake, to the small village of Bowness, whose church is remarkable for containing some of the painted glass, taken out of the east window at Furness Abbey, which is esteemed curious and beautiful. Leaving our horses at a small ale-house, we took a boat to visit the large island, now belonging to John Christian, Esq. of Unerig, in Cumberland, whose elegant improvements are numerous and praiseworthy, since the observations of Mr. Hutchinson and other visitors, whose remarks must be deemed too censorious and unjust, the slopes and meandring walks are both proper and ornamental; nor can the change of building on its present scale be deemed unnatural or improper; for it cannot be supposed that a gentleman of extensive fortune, can in these luxurious days, when convenience and art spread themselves to the remotest parts of the kingdom, confine him - self to the narrow limits of an original cottage. This mansion does not affect many ornaments of art and fancy, but shews a style of architecture, plain and neat, best suited to such a situation. The additions now making, wear a proper cast of antiquity and romantic soft ness, and when the plantations grow to perfection, the whole cannot fail to please every eye that is not severely critical.
The several stations on this island, pointed out by our inimitable guide, produce effects truly picturesque and charming; but the sublimity of scenery viewed from the north side,
" Is more than ever the learned Pous sin drew," Or dashing Rosa flung upon the view."
The surrounding fells exhibit alpine heights, that rear their conic heads amidst the skies in most majestic order.
After having thus enjoyed ourselves from the principal points of the lake, and the morning being far advanced, we omitted going lower down the lake, but went from hence to the fifth station, where Mr. Young took his general view of the lake, and discovered that croud of new beauties which he so finely describes, as quoted by Mr. West. This indeed, was superlatively grand, and must undoubtedly at a critical hour, beggar all attempts of language to give an adequate idea of its surprising charms. Had we arrived on the summit of this hill at our first approach towards the lake, we should have hit the time to perfection; but the heat of the mid-day sun produced a dimness in the air rather unfavourable; yet as every station cannot be obtained to the utmost wish of the observer moving in neces sary order, we were well satisfied, and returned full of delight. A little behind this station, on the highest point of the mountain, seems to be the centre of the whole country, which commands all the neighbouring valleys, rocks and water, with a distant view of the sea towards Lancaster.
Taking leave of this sublime scene of wonder and delight, we concluded the day at Low Wood Inn, at the upper end of the lake, which is a good house, and delightfully situated for the purpose of receiving company who visit these uncommon romantic waters.
The afternoon increased in heat, which produced distant rumblings in the skies that threatned new aweful scenes of mixt delight, but the evening became cool without much thunder, and the lowering clouds gave suspicions of approaching rain.
The next morning the same aspect continued, but it held up till we got a few miles on the cross road towards Ulls Water, when the thick mist, which hovered round the mountains, began to fall in mizzling showers, which gave little hopes of pleasure or advantage from this day's excursion: gaining the summit of Kirkston Hills we could scarce discern beyond our horses heads while the deep vale beneath, through the intervals of gleaming light, displayed a scene rarely to be met with, and which the following lines in Beatties Minstrel only can describe.
" And oft the craggy cliff he loved to climb, When all in mist the world below was lost, What dreadful pleasure! there to stand sublime, Like ship-wrecked mariner on desert coast, And view the enormous waste of vapour tost, In billows lengthening to the horizon round, Now scooped in gulphs, with mountains now embossed, And hear the voice of mirth and song rebound, Flocks, herds, and water-falls, along the hoar profound!
But as we began to descend into the vale of Kirkston, whose sloping rocks of immense height, form a most curious rude avenue to the small lake of Broad Water, and its surrounding meads; here the clouds opening at intervals gave some faint glimmerings of sun-shine, which afforded a pleasant variety of light and shade, and hopes of a better day. We had never till now been so much amongst these wonderful rocks, as to have them hang in rude magnificence around our heads, which rendered this ride peculiarly striking.
Advancing now towards the lake of Ulls Water, we pas sed through the recluse village of Paterdale, which takes its name from St. Patrick, and a little beyond are yet visible the remains of a well on the road side, where he is said first to have performed the office of baptismal rites.
A little onward, the lake displays a new scene of beauties to the astonished beholder, for still different from those we had yet seen, its surrounding rocks hang in wildest order over its reflecting surface; Martindale Fell, Swark Fell, Skelling Nab, and Place Fell are bold features on one side of this part of the lake, and on the opposite, Yew Crag, Gow Barrow-park,& c. This lake differs from the rest, from its meandring streams only permitting one reach to be viewed at a time. As we here entered upon its largest and most particular beauties, we did not think it neces sary to traverse nine or ten miles down to its utmost boundaries, as the day was far advanced, and at intervals the showers became disagreeable.
During one of these heavy showers we took shelter at a small pot-house below the village, where we discovered a cha - racter which gave us more entertainment and satisfaction than all the outward beauties of the place. At our entrance into this public hut, we observed three common men in busy conversation in an adjacent room, and thinking to get some intelligence by their company, introduced ourselves with some trifling questions about the lake, when we received an answer from the middlemost, which, from its pointed manner of delivery, and coming from one whose countenance was marked with strong traces of understanding, much belyed the outward appearance of his dress. His companions began now humorously to give me the several titles which his callings had fixed upon him, viz. Charon, parish clerk, and scribe, likewise secretary to the king of Paterdale. This latter appellation induced me to enquire who this great personage was; when they gave me a short history of his very extraordinary character: That he was an old man about fourscore, of the name of Moisey, owner of the principal house in that village, called Paterdale House, who pos ses sed near one thousand per annum, yet lives the veriest wretch of the fraternity of misers. He accidentally pas sing by, during this conversation, I was glad of the opportunity of paying my respects to so noble a king; accordingly I approached with due reverence his venerable majesty, and was permitted a short conversation, but could get little information from this audience, for the few incoherent sentences with which I was favoured, gave me to understand that his thoughts were more fixed upon his own interest, and the accumulation of his wealth, than to satisfy the curiosity of a traveller. However, I was sufficiently gratified, for I had by this time well examined his princely dress and figure.
As to his face and form, they were such as naturally await upon old age, but his common daily habit( for I will not suppose these his robes of state) was such as is rarely found in the most needy southern cot; a filthy brown coat, whose course thread bare texture appeared to have stood the drudgery of more than twenty years, waistcoat and breeches of near the same description, his thick spun woollen hose, that once were blue, but made for long duration, now bore but a faint resemblance of their former colour; and to preserve his princely feet from the perils of the weather, he had on a large pair of clogs, whose ponderous soles must once have made havock, which he thought extravagant, into some of his most favourite timber. Something like a hat indeed he wore, but whether underneath it, might be found the thin remains of silver locks, or grisly wig, I know not; for all was concealed under the cover of a check wove handkerchief that tied close his fallen chin.
But to return to the character of honest Charon; his company now became more entertaining, and his genius began to display itself in various specimens of poetry, nor was he ignorant of many other subjects. In short, so wrapt up was I, in the discovery of such abilities in this remote place, that I could not depart without extremely regretting that such a man should be doomed to linger out his life upon the scanty pittance of a few pounds a year.
Pleased with this unexpected entertainment, we now left this place to take some further notice of the lake, and continued our ride about two miles lower, through the most delightful avenues imaginable, formed by the surrounding oaks that on one side covered the margin of the lake; and on the other hung from the immense cliffs above, which one would imagine not capable of producing any thing so rich and valuable. What renders the scene still more lovely is the smoothness and superior excellence of the road. The bold promontaries here push themselves into the bosom of the water, forming slopes and bays of the greatest variety that can please the eye, and give grandeur to the scene; these promontaries afford many admirable stations for observing the various reaches and windings of the most curious lake. Thence too, we had a very good view of the Duke of Norfolk's new place situated on a fine slope of verdure under Airey Fells, about a mile below. With a glass I could well distinguish the form and style of building, which is oblong, with turrets at each end; but the scale not very large and not yet finished: the part towards the lake is now habitable, and the Duke resides there frequently.
Thus far satisfied with this day's excursion we returned over the hills of Kirkston, and took the right hand road through Ambleside, to our Inn at Low Wood, where at night a cannon was discharged from the green adjoining the lake, for the purpose of shewing the remarkable reverberations of sounds often produced amongst these rocks and vallies, but the air being unfavourable, and the wind not in a proper direction, our expectations were not sufficienly gratified.
The next morning, August 11th, being fair but cloudy, with short intervals of sunshine, we left this delightful place to enjoy sixteen miles of excellent mountain road to Keswick, full of lakes and water-falls. At Rydal Hall we were first called out of the road to admire two most beautiful cascades, the one situated a little distance above the house, amidst a steep and thick wood, to which the owner, Sir Michael Fleming, much to his praise, has formed a very agreeable winding path with convenient seats to accommodate the visitors of these romantic scenes. The water here makes fine falls, the uppermost as seen from the large white seat is a tumbling torrent from a considerable perpendicular height, which discharges itself with great violence into a capacious bason of blackest water, whence again it rushes over the lower cliffs, in a manner which excites pleasure more than surprize. Thus gratified with these charming effects of rock and water, we descended to view the other cascade, first discovered, and so much admired by Mr. Mason; the summer house window through which it is beheld, renders the sscene truly beautiful.
From hence we pas sed by Rydal Water, a lake about a mile long; the rocks well wooded that surround it, and the various Isles in miniature that peep above its surface, afford a prospect truly pleasing. We next ascended a large eminence which throws the eye unexpectedly upon the beautiful vale and lake of Grasmere, so elegantly described by Mr. Gray, where nothing" breaks in upon the repose of this little unsuspected paradise; but all is peace, rusticity and happy poverty, in its neatest, most becoming attire."
Ascending now the summit of Dunmail Raise, we took a farewel view of this primaeval scene, and gradually descending to the foot of lofty Helvellyn, had the wildly winding lake of Leather - water full upon our sight. This differs greatly from the rest, and it affords some striking grandeur, after having just seen the charming fertility that adorns the borders of Grasmere, to be thus presented with so much barrenness of rude rock, broke into immense gulphy bays and promontaries to receive this spacious water; the only object that affords a soft relief to the eye, amidst this rugged group, is the small picturesque bridge, leading over the narrowest part into a peninsula of pleasing verdure. Hence we pas sed by a few cots through the vale of Legberthwate, terminated by the bold craggy rock of St. John, beyond which winds its sweet vale, surrounded by a numerous heap of fells and mountains. Ascending now Naddle Fell to Castlerigg, we were suddenly charmed by the all-glorious vale of Keswick and its enchanting environs. The Queen's Head was our Inn at this pleasant little town, from whence, after dinner, we procured a guide and boat to sail upon the neighbouring lake, called Derwent Water, and visit its various scenes and isles. But first, instead of taking pos ses sion of West's first station, Cockshut Hill, which is now too much wooded for that purpose, we went into the field in front of it, and had a pleasing general view of the lake, and its surrounding Amphitheatre of rudest rocks. We next went upon the water, but had not the pleasure to view its mirror-like surface, which it is so famous for in bright and serene weather, for now the clouds hung with threatening rain above our heads, and the bleak winds conspired to give the watery plain an unpleasing agitation.
Pocklington's Island was the next object of our notice: the length of which is about 251 yards, and breadth 169. The house in the centre of it is elegant, though not large, and is the property of John Pocklington, Esq. whose rage for buildings, and fame for Regatta's amidst these romantic scenes, are too well known to need any farther remarks. The remains of a Druid's temple at the south end of the island are worth observation, though its present construction consists only of a large circle of rude stones piled up of irregular heights, and is about 56 feet in diameter.
From hence we cros sed to St. Herbert's Island, which is of an oval form, and filled with fir trees; here are still to be seen the bare ruins of that saint's habitation. We next went to Lord's Island, which is also strongly wooded, and displays the scattered remains of a building formerly belonging to the Derwentwater family.
We now returned to the shore again, and in our way to Keswick pas sed over the borders of what was once Crow Park, but now no more the trace of groves remains: it is now a field of corn without a tree to deck its venerable brow. The charming views that are seen from this spot are worthy the attention of the artist who wishes to give his landscape the softness of due proportion.
The day following produced an abundance of rain, and frustrated every hope of visiting the neighbouring country. But in the evening, which became more favourable, we stole the opportunity of riding towards the much admired vale of Borrowdale, and continuing on the left side of the lake towards Grange, we came to a new edifice called Ashness, belonging to Mr. Pocklington, but not yet finished: behind this is a most rapid and delightful waterfall, which collecting itself amidst the rude rocks above, rushes with impetuous force into the craggy bosom of the wood below. On each side are tolerable pas sages of ascent, which may afford a moderate view of its several parts; but to have an adequate idea of this dashing torrent, it is neces sary to pursue the arduous method of climbing up the slippery cliffs which compose the prominent features of this wild scene. Here the thundering music strikes with noble violence the astonished ear. From these tremendous heights a side view of the lake gives a pleasing indulgence to the eye. Descending, we now followed the common road, which soon brought us to the famed Lowdore, but the water here was not so full and violent, nor any one perpendicular fall equal to that we had just left, though the whole space is considerably higher. The access is dif - ficult, but as the stream was much less than usual, we were able to creep up from stone to stone near the top of this vast chasm formed between the rock of Shutteoerer and Gondar Crag. It is situated at the southern extremity of the lake, and affords many very magnificent views. But upon the broad summit of one of these highest stones may be found a station superior to all others, and, I think, more advantageous for a complete extensive prospect than Mr. West's fourth station; for, I should conceive, according to Mr. Gray's idea, that Castle Crag is too much elevated to preserve a just proportion through the whole; but here, about half the height, the whole lake presents itself uninterrupted by any object but its own beauteous isles, and gradually diminishing, over the town of Keswick, and village of Crosthwaite, the eye is carried through a surprizing avenue, formed by lofty Skiddaw and its opposite mountains, and at length is lost over the delightful vale in which the lake of Basingthwaite winds its woodgirt streams.
Leaving this waterfall we extended our ride through the rugged bowels of Borrowdale, which opens new scenes of horror and astonishment. The road till lately was intercepted by the mouldering hand of time, and devastations of casual storms or slight convulsions.
Amidst the countless mass that every where presents itself the famous Bowdar Stone is most conspicuous, which is about 62 feet long, and 84 in circumference; but for a more accurate and enlarged description of this and other wonders peculiar to the place, vide page 95,& c. of Mr. West's tour.
We still continued by the village of Rosthwaite to the head of Borrowdale, which gave us a sufficient specimen of this rude discharge of nature, formed to impress the mind with ideas of sublime contemplation, and to gratify the curiosity of the nicest observer.
Next morning we proposed ascending the immense brow of unparalleled Skiddaw, but the lowering clouds veiling in thick mists much of his stupendous height, we were obliged to decline this plan, but adopted another more extensive. Accordingly, with a living guide, Joseph Hodgson, from the Queen's Head, we set out on a mountainous excursion to the west part of this country.
In our way we called to view Mr. Gray's sweet pastoral scene from the vicar's horse block at Crosthwaite, which was very beautiful, but more so from the side of the adjoining field, which takes in at the same time a great part of Bassenthwaite water in the vale below. Having thus indulged ourselves we continued about half a mile on the Cokermouth road, and then turned up a narrow lane to the left, which soon brought us to the foot of Swinside; where leaving our horses, we gained the summit of this mountain, which commands the rich vale of Keswick, and Bas senthwaite-water to the left, the town of Keswick at the foot of Skiddaw in front, Derwent lake with the gorge of Borrow Dale to the right.
Turning to the contrary aspect, the vale of Newlands with all its surrounding rocks and hills, presents a fresh and most charming view.
On our descent as we traversed this picturesque vale, the transition was quick and extraordinary, from the almost numbing cold of winter to the serene warmth of spring, from the barren rock to the cultivated farm, till pas sing Keskcadale, solitude and uncultivated nature again spread their solemn charms, to fill the mind with aweful contemplation.
Following now the narrow path, called Newland Hawse, on the side of many a barren hill, we were again suddenly presented with much verdure, particularly, the delightful mountains Witeless, and Witeless Pike, whose gras sy surface was scattered over with such a fleecy flock as is rarely found in plains of the greatest fertility.
Soon after we came in sight of Buttermere a small solitary village, situated between the lakes of Buttermere and Cromackwater. In the front we had Burtness Turn, where is a pond in the bosom of the rock remarkable for trout of the deepest black, with eyes of the same colour, whence is sues down the mountain's barren side a cataract called Sour Milk-gill, from the frothy whiteness which it obtains in its fall. On the left is Hay Rig, High Crag, and Red Pike; but most conspicuous is Humster Crag, just above the vale of Gascarth, remarkable for the finest blue slate, above which Great Gavel, Green Gavel, and Skow Fell spire with gigantic heads.
Cros sing the vale of Buttermere we entered a most intricate barren inclosure, called Buttermere Scale, which, with the as sistance of our experienced guide, we pas sed with great difficulty. Here fastening our horses to some rails, we walked about a quarter of a mile to the left, to view that surprizing phenomenon, called Scale Force, and of which no description has yet been given. At the time we were inspecting this extraordinary chasm its fall of water was deficient more than half its usual quantity, which gave us a better opportunity of examining every part. It is a wonderful separation of the two rocks, about ten feet wide, and the perpendicular fall of the stream near 150 feet. The rocks are chiefly barren that surround it, but on its margin, as if more peculiarly to adorn this enchanting spot, hang in graceful order both the willow and the ssh. Its moist walls are covered by the soft hand of nature with every sweet variety of moss, herb, and flower, which form innumerable pictures, beyond the reach of art to imitate such excellence.
Leaving this most uncommon and delicious scene, we mounted our horses, and continuing on the side of Cromack Water, close under the mountain, Mell - break, we came to an excellent station, called Lingey Point, a bold promontary that well commands this lake throughout. In front, on the opposite margin, stands Randon Knot, remarkable for its orange-tinted surface, Grasmire Mount for its purple one, and Silver Side for particular whiteness, which, when heightened by the rays of the sun, form a most delightful group. All that is wanted to render this scene more perfect, is a revival of those fine woods, whose small remains are left to bemoan the cruel effects of the American war. Proceeding onwards we came opposite the small church of Lows Water, where, from a gentle eminence, appears a most beautiful view of that lake on the left, over which are faintly seen, towering amidst the clouds, the Galloway hills in Scotland; and on the right the rich vale of Lorton opens a scene of fertility rarely to be found.
From this place, with the sure as sistance of our guide, we undertook to traverse the western mountains to the lake of Ennerdale, about six miles farther, and unnoticed by Mr. West. After a laborious ascent up the steep side of Ennikin, to the right of Mellbreak, we were rewarded with a grand extensive prospect of the Solway Firth, spreading its wide waves into the Irish Ocean. From hence too may be distinguished the Isle of Man, and much of the mountainous country in Scotland, which, together with a sublime view of all those rocky hills we had left behind, could not fail to gratify our curiosity. After a few more rugged trials, sometimes upon the hard access of barren rocks, and at others upon the rotten surface of extensive mos ses, which threatened at every step a boggy chasm, we arrived at last upon the firm brow of Floatren, which soon led us to the object of this pursuit. Of itself, it consists of large barren rocks surrounding an oval bason of water, about the size of Grasmire, but on the right extends a pleasant vale, chiefly the property of Lord Lonsdale, interspersed with farms, small woods, and a few mills for the manufacturing of paper,& c.
The bold and craggy mountains that encompass the head of this lake, are called by the natives, Hindas, Bowness Knot, Latterbarrow, and the three Coves, situated betwixt this lake and Wastdale Head, distinguished by the names of Birkmoss, Windlef, and Great Cove. The others most conspicuous are Iron Crag, Angling Stone, and Crag Fell, but the highest of all, Pillar Mount. In the Hawse or path which leads from hence to Wast Water, may be seen the havock made amongst those cliffs by a smart shock of the earth, in March 1786, when about 5000 ton of stone was hurled into the valley. But it is a very untrodden pas sage at present, and almost too difficult to accomplish.
After having dined upon the homely provisions of a small alehouse at the neighbouring village of Ennerdale, we set out again for our quarters at Keswick; and winding round the extreme skirts of this mountainous country for the sake of a more even and ready road, we met with an ingenious mechanic, whose name is Atkinson, who pres sed us to see an improved forge of his construction near this road, where he makes, in a very expeditious manner, many sorts of tools, particularly hoes for the Virginia planters; which at one heating he expands and plates the metal into the requisite form, under a large hammer, which strikes with the astonishing velocity of one hundred and thirty times in a minute. Our inspection of these works seemed to gratify the pride of the owner, whose glory was to shew that the human mind was equally capable of such exertions in these northern regions, as in the most favourite reces ses of the South.
We now continued on the direct road that soon brought us round the other side of Lows Water, and Cromack Water, which afforded us a new fund of admiration, the evening being fine; for it is incredible what a total change of scenery this contrary approach occasions.
Cros sing the River Cocker, we came to Scale Hill, a public house conveniently situated for company that visit these lakes. A narrow lane of about five miles led us to the excellent turn-pike road betwixt Cockermouth and Keswick: but the approaching night prohibiting all farther prospect of the surrounding beauties, we hastened to enjoy the comforts of repose at our welcomed Inn. Having now nothing more to visit of consequence in Cumberland, except the promised views from the summit of Skiddaw, we retired to rest, with full hopes of the morrow affording us an early and glorious opportunity; but alas! it was not our fortune now to be indulged with this delight, for the day was darkened by continued rain, and we were left to amuse ourselves in the best manner this little place affords. How fortunate is it then for the visitors of these scenes to have an unexpected resource during the tedious intervals of rain. A well adorned Museum is the place of amusement here alluded to, kept by Mr. Crosthwaite, late a Lieutenant in the Navy, whose attention to the curious works of nature has given him the opportunity of mak - ing a considerable collection for the inspection of the public. His room is very commodious, and contains much matter of information and entertainment. You have here in miniature the chief wonders of the surrounding country.
The Philosopher may here gratify himself in contemplating many objects of his researches, and the thoughtless visitor may pass an hour of wet weather in a pleasing and rational manner.
We now took leave of Keswick, August 17th, the day promising fair, and pas sed along the side of Bas sinthwaite water, which afforded us many pleasant views, though not as recommended in pages 115,& c. of Mr. West's tour, the Wigton road leading us on the contrary side, under the foot of lofty Skiddaw, which remained the prime object for many miles.
Wigton is a small market town of little repute, where we stopped to dine, and went from thence just in time to cross the Solway Firth at Bowness, about eight o'clock: this is a very pleasant spas sage at low water of near three miles; in the middle the current is rapid, but with a guide perfectly free from danger.

