

Black's Shilling Guide To The English Lakes Edited By M. J. B. Baddeley Twenty Second Edition London Adam And Charles Black 1900 
The Lake District

The section of England known by the name of the Lake District occupies a portion of the three counties of Cumberland, Westmorland, and Lancaster, and extends over an area the greatest length and breadth of which is not more than thirty - five miles. The picturesque attractions of the district are unequalled in any other part of England; indeed there is probably not in the whole world a district wherein, in so small a space, such a variety of scenery-- rugged mountain, verdant valley, spreading lake and luxuriant wood-- is comprehended. It is certainly the most compact tourist resort of Europe, and though so small, it offers an endless variety of pleasurable excursions, especially on foot.
It is needless to remind our readers of the great influence which the Lake poets, Wordsworth, Southey, Hartley Coleridge, and others, have exercised in arousing public interest in the district; nor yet of the close connection with it of John Ruskin, lately buried at Coniston.
Abstract Of Tours 
For the accommodation of strangers we have drawn up an abstract of six tours, which commence at one or other of the principal railway stations situate on the edge of the district. By consulting the map, tourists will be able to vary the routes according to their convenience. Each tour may be accomplished in from four to six days. Those who take a full week or more should plan their journey so as to include Coniston and Grasmere among the resting-places for the night.
I. Windermere 
 Windermere or Bowness( visiting various points of interest on Lake, especially one of the view-points)-- Ambleside-- Troutbeck Excursion over Wansfell-- Coniston-- Langdale Excursion-- Grasmere and Rydalmere-- Keswick-- Derwentwater-- Vale Of St. John-- Skiddaw-- Bassenthwaite-- Excursion to Borrowdale, Buttermere, and Wastwater-- Patterdale-- Ullswater-- terminating at Penrith.
Ii. Windermere( alternative to the above) 
 Windermere or Bowness-- Coniston by coach and Furness Abbey by rail-- Lakeside( Windermere) by rail and Ambleside by steamer-- Rydal, Grasmere, and Keswick by coach, Lodore( Borrowdale) and Buttermere and back to Keswick by coach-- Troutbeck by rail, Patterdale( Ullswater) by coach-- Pooley Bridge by steamer, Penrith by rail; or( better for scenery) back to Windermere by coach.
Iii. Windermere( Lake Side) 
 Lakeside to Bowness, thence as in I.
Iv. Keswick( by rail from Penrith) 
 Keswick-- Derwentwater-- Skiddaw-- train to Troutbeck( Cumberland), coach to Ullswater; back over Helvellyn-- Excursion to Borrowdale, Buttermere, and Wastwater-- to Ambleside-- by coach to Windermere or Bowness-- Troutbeck Excursion-- Coniston and Furness Abbey-- Langdale Excursion-- Grasmere and Rydalmere.
V. Penrith 
 Penrith-- coach to Pooley Bridge-- Ullswater( steamer)-- Patterdale-- ascend Helvellyn-- Ambleside-- by Troutbeck( Westmorland)-- Windermere or Bowness-- Langdales Excursion-- Coniston and Furness Abbey-- Grasmere and Rydalmere-- Keswick-- Derwentwater-- Skiddaw-- Vale Of St. John-- Excursion to Borrowdale, Buttermere, and Wastwater-- return by road and rail to Penrith.
Vi. Lancaster 
From Lancaster or Carnforth Junction by rail-- Grange-- Furness Abbey-- rail by Broughton to Coniston-- ascend the Old Man-- Bowness, Langdale Excursion-- Ambleside-- Windermere-- Langdale Excursion-- Rydal and Grasmere-- Keswick-- Derwentwater-- Vale Of St. John-- Skiddaw-- Excursion to Borrowdale and Buttermere-- by rail to Troutbeck( Cumberland), thence coach to Patterdale-- Ullswater-- steamer, etc., to Penrith.
Circular Tour Of The Lakes 
The Furness Railway Company advertise about twenty tours at very cheap rates, which include almost every place in the district which can be visited by rail, road, or water.
For those who wish to see a great deal in a short time.
Days.
1. Lake Side( Windermere), by steamer to Waterhead( 11); Ambleside( ¾). Round of the Langdales( carriage or foot), going by Little Langdale, and returning by Great Langdale and Grasmere( 20);-- total, 32 m.
2. Ambleside to Coniston, by Barngates( coach or foot; 8) Ascend Old Man( 3 - 4 hrs.), or" gondola" Coniston Lake or visit Furness Abbey.
3. Walk over Walna Scar to Seathwaite( 5), and Boot in Eskdale, visiting Stanley Gill( 6); thence by Burnmoor Tarn to Wasdale Head( 6);-- total, 17 m.
4. Ascend Scawfell Pike( 4 - 5 hrs.), and walk over Black Sail Pass to Angler's Inn, Ennerdale( 9)-- a heavy day; or ascend the Pillar, and drop from it into Ennerdale( 4 - 5 hrs.)
5. Walk by Floutern Tarn to Scale Hill( Crummock; 6); and thence by Whinlatter Pass( 10, road); or Coledale Pass( 9, foot-track) to Keswick.
6. Buttermere excursion in public waggonette( 23); Borrowdale, Honister Pass, Scale Force, and the Vale of Newlands, are visited in this excursion.
7. Watendlath( carriage or foot; 5); walk over Armboth Fell to Wythburn( 5); ascend Helvellyn and descend to Patterdale( 3 - 4 hrs.)
8. Aira Force( by row-boat or road) and back( 6); on foot to Howtown, over Boardale Hause( 5 ½); thence viâ Fusedale and Measand to Mardale Green( Hawes Water; 8 ½);-- total, 20 m.
9. Over Kidsty Pike and High Street to Kirkstone Pass( 3 - 4 hrs.); thence to Ambleside by Troutbeck and Lowood Hotel( 7); or direct from High Street to Troutbeck.
10. Ambleside to Windermere by any route( the turnpike road( 5) is the least interesting). Best over Wansfell; down to Troutbeck and thence by the coach-route( upper road) to Windermere Station or Bowness Pier.
( Approximate) Hotel And Conveyance Charges 
	 s.	 d.		 s.	 d.	 Breakfast-- plain. . 1 6 Luncheon-- cold meat( luncheons are a speciality of the district). . 1s. 6d. to 2 6" table d' hôte. . 2 6 Tea with meat 2s. to 2 6 Dinners-- table d' hôte. . 4s. to 5 0 Afternoon Tea( very good), 9d. to 1s.	 Beds, 2s. to 4s.	 Attendance charged in the bill-- 1s. 6d. or 1s. each per night.	
There is no Tourist district in the kingdom with better accommodation at the price than the English Lakes. The smaller, country inns, merit a special word of commendation.
Charges For Conveyances 
For a one - horse conveyance, 1s. per mile.
For a two - horse conveyance, 1s. 6d. per mile.
 The return journey is generally charged a third more.
Carriages are generally hired by the day.
Payment To Drivers. 
For an excursion occupying one or more days, 5s. per day.
When paid by the distance, 3d. per mile.
When paid by the time, 6d. per hour.
No charge for the return journey.
In such an excursion as that from Keswick to Buttermere, where the driver and horses have to wait in order to return, the driver's dinner and horses' feed will amount to 3s. 6d., or thereabouts.
The hire of a one - horse vehicle for a whole day is about 15s.
Stage Coach fares are 3d. to 3 ½ d. per mile outside.
The Langdale, Borrowdale, and Coniston rounds are run at cheaper rates.
Driver's fees on the public coaches are abolished, or, at any rate, optional.
Steamers And Boats 
There are steam-yachts on Lake Windermere, Ullswater, and Coniston.
Rowing Boats may be hired on all the principal lakes.
The usual charge is 1s. per hour.
Public Conveyances

There are regular four - horse coach-routes( excellently appointed) from Windermere( and Bowness) to Ambleside, Grasmere, and Keswick; to Ullswater and to Coniston; from Ambleside( Waterhead) to Grasmere and Keswick, and to Ullswater.
 Char - à-bancs or other public conveyances run at cheap rates from Ambleside and Grasmere to Coniston; from Windermere, Bowness, Ambleside, and Grasmere to the Langdales; and from Keswick for the Borrowdale and Buttermere round.
A new and charming Circular Drive has lately been added by the opening of the beautiful road along the west side of Thirlmere. Public conveyances leave Keswick and Grasmere daily, in connection at Grasmere with the four - horse coach-service from Windermere, Bowness, and Ambleside.
 Approaches to the Lake District 
Most tourists leave the train either at the Windermere Village terminus of the L. and N. - W. Co. or at the Keswick Station of the Cockermouth, Keswick, and Penrith line, which is also worked by the L. and N. - W. The former is nearer and more convenient for residents in the Southern and Midland Counties; the latter for Scotland, Durham, and Northumberland. Another deservedly favourite route is that by Lake Side at the foot of Windermere, which from the days of Wordsworth onwards has been recognised as the artistic access. In the five - and-twenty miles or so between Carnforth and Lake Side this line crosses the estuaries of the Kent and the Leven, and in so doing affords charming distant views of the Lake mountains. It also passes the very pretty watering-place of Grange Over-Sands. On the L. and N. - W. route there is a good distant mountain view from about Oxenholme Junction, whence the line drops to the county town of Kendal. This Company runs a tourist train from London to Windermere and Keswick daily, besides attaching through carriages to other trains. The Midland, in conjunction with the Furness Company run through carriages to Ulverston, Furness Abbey, and Lake Side, in connection with London expresses, several times a day. The fares to Windermere Village and Lake Side are the same from all stations south of Carnforth inclusive.
There is also through communication between Leeds and Coniston viâ Carnforth, and tourists making Coniston a starting-point have, as compensation for the extra distance, the opportunity of breaking their journey at Furness Abbey en route.
From the North besides Keswick, Penrith has high claims as a starting-place, though the Lake District can hardly be said to be entered short of Pooley Bridge at the foot of Ullswater, 6 miles from Penrith. There is, however, through coach and steamer communication about four times a day between Penrith and the head of Ullswater, and this is the best way of seeing Ullswater.
 Shap as a starting-point affords pedestrians the easiest way of getting to Hawes Water, whence they may cross the fells either to Windermere or to Ullswater.
The approaches from various stations of the Furness railway on the West Coast of Cumberland-- Ravenglass, Drigg, Seascale, St. Bees, to wit, and from Cockermouth-- may be recommended to the pedestrian who seeks a little change from the hackneyed route. From Ravenglass a toy railway runs to Boot at the foot of Scafell, where the hotel accommodation has lately been considerably enlarged; and from Seascale, where there is a large and popular hotel, a coach runs to Wasdale Head about three times a week.
Months And Seasons 
As to the best time of year for visiting the Lake District, there can be no doubt that the popular month, August, is the worst of what may be called the season months, May to October.
The following lists show the duration of sunshine and rainfall during the above months for the last four years-- the former taken by Jordan's instruments at Windermere Hydropathic.
Hours Of Sunshine 
	 1896 1897 1898 1899 Total Average Previous Four Years' Average May 283 277 166 168 894 224 210 June 267 145 156 263 831 208 243 July 152 208 224 167 751 188 203 August 124 169 135 236 664 166 155 September 67 115 104 103 389 97 102 October 77 109 78 105 369 92 102	
Inches Of Rainfall

	 1896 1897 1898 1899 Total Average Previous Four Years' Average May 0.53 2.92 3.09 5.13 11.67 2.92 3.18 June 6.46 4.39 4.14 2.23 17.22 4.30 2.65 July 3.05 2.58 1.21 4.12 10.96 2.74 4.74 August 3.51 6.92 10.07 2.07 22.57 5.64 6.08 September 8.73 5.92 3.56 7.00 25.21 6.30 4.80 October 6.68 3.91 6.27 5.56 22.42 5.60 6.11	
Taking any number of years and striking an average there can be no question that, even allowing for the extra duration of possible sunshine, May and June are the sunniest of the summer months, as they are also the driest. St. Swithin is apt to extend a special patronage over the Lake District. When his reign commences the trees have assumed an almost universal green; the weather, if not wet, is often hot and hazy, and the roads, from the quantity of traffic passing over them, are probably disagreeable in some way. Then comes the tourist rush with its inevitable accompaniments of worry and crowding. On the contrary, from about the middle of May till the end of June there is no region in the kingdom, save, perhaps, those of the New Forest and the Wyndcliff, which exhibits the unfolding of the bud and the development of the leaf, from the tenderest tints of yellow to the deepest green, in such happy variety as the wooded parts of the Lake District. The larch, harbinger of summer in its vernal freshness, and the tender-tinted birch, stand out in lovely contrast with their larger brethren, the oak, chestnut, beech, and sycamore-- the last named emphatically the tree of Westmorland, while of evergreens and flowering shrubs there is an abundance, the sable yew being found almost everywhere in the more rural parts, though the storms of recent winters, notably that of 22nd December 1894, have made sad havoc with the chief veterans among them-- the" fraternal four of Borrowdale," the" pride of Lorton Vale," and lastly the time-honoured monarch which probably gave its name to Yewdale-- a veritable" King Lear" among trees.
May and June, September, and October in its first half, are often the pleasantest months, though the exceptionally heavy rainfall of the early autumn of 1896 has for a time spoilt their average. In October, too, the shortening days become a drawback. The earlier spring months, March and April, are often very dry and enjoyable, and the lie of the whole district, protected as it is by the Pennine Chain and other fells of north-west Yorkshire and Westmorland, causes the west wind to lose much of its bitterness.
Winter, too, has its charm, especially on the fells, where the rich auburn and russet tints of the bracken, which is their characteristic carpeting, gives the scene a cheeriness unknown in countries where" brown heath and shaggy wood" are the leading attractions.
To sum up, we would advise every one who can take his holiday before or after the" thick" of the season, to do so. The congestion of the present holiday season is a subject which might worthily occupy the attention of our chief social reformers.
 Hotels. -- Rigg's Windermere, just above station, with fine view, first - class, and good; Queen's, and Elleray, good little excursionist houses in village; small Temp. Hotel in village; Sun( neat) at Troutbeck Bridge, 1 ¼ m. from station. Numerous Lodging Houses.
 Distances and Cost of Tourist Tickets. -- London, 260 m.( abt. 6 ¼ hrs.), 73s. 4d., 56s. 6d., 37s. 6d.; Birmingham, 154 m.( abt. 5 hrs.), 46s. 9d., 33s. 3d., 22s. 6d.; Manchester, 81 m.( abt. 2 ½ hrs.), 25s., 16s. 9d., 12s.; Leeds, 78 m.( abt. 2 ¾ hrs.), 23s. 6d., 11s. 6d.; Edinburgh, 161 m.( 5 - 6 hrs.), 48s. 6d., 23s. 6d.
 Rigg's Coaches from station and hotel to Ambleside, fare, 1s. 6d.; Grasmere, 2s. 6d.; round Thirlmere, 7s.; Keswick, 6s. 6d.; Coniston, 4s.; Ullswater, 6s. Return fares abt. 1 ½ single.
 ' Buses( 6d.) from Bowness and other hotels on the lake in connection with all trains.
 P.O. 150 yds. from station; open 7-9; Sun. 8-10. Chief despatch abt. 8.20 P.M.; Sun. 5.20. Tel. Off. open 8-8; Sun. 8-10, 5-6.
 Estab. Church, St. Mary's, ¼ m. from station, on Ambleside road. Full Sun. services, 10.45, 6.30. St. John's, ¾ m. on Bowness road, 11, 6.30.
 Banks. -- Lancaster, Liverpool, close to station; open 9-3( Thurs. 1).
 Golf Course. -- See p. 17( 2 ¼ m. walk from station).
The village of Windermere is the terminal station of the branch line from Oxenholme, viâ Kendal, and is the point made for by the greater proportion of visitors to the Lake District. It overlooks the Lake,-- distant about ¾ of a mile,-- and is 1 ½ miles north of Bowness, the chief port of Windermere Lake; so far Bowness is the nearest point on the lake accessible by road, the route to Millerground Landing( ¾ m., see map) being a footpath. The village has a population of nearly 2000, steadily increasing. It consists of several streets, all descending from the railway station, and a large number of gentlemen's residences and detached villas. The great feature of the place, it is needless to say, is Lake Windermere, which extends 10 ½ miles in length, and 1 mile in breadth at the widest part. Its principal feeder is formed by the confluence of the Brathay and Rothay shortly before entering the lake. The streams from Troutbeck, Blelham Tarn, and Esthwaite Water also pour in their waters at different points. Numerous islands, varying considerably in size, diversify its surface at no great distance from one another-- none of them being more than 1 ½ miles from the central part of the lake. By far the largest is Belle Isle( otherwise" Curwen Isle" or" Long Holm"), a private park belonging to the Curwen family, and adorned with a mansion familiarly known as the" Tea Caddy." This island, like all the rest, is charmingly wooded, and is a most effective contributor to the beauty of the scene between Bowness and the Ferry. Windermere is deeper than any of the other lakes, except Wastwater, its greatest depth being 219 feet, and its mean depth, in respect of which it ranks below Crummock and Ullswater as well as Wastwater, 78 ½ feet. It is plentifully stocked with perch, pike, trout, and char, which last, at the proper season, are potted in large quantities and forwarded to the south. An Angling Association has lately much improved the fishing by removing nearly all the nets, except for char, and destroying to some extent the pike. It is a remarkable fact, that at the spawning season, when the trout and char leave the lake, the former fish takes the Rothay and the latter the Brathay.
 See Bathymetrical Survey of the English Lakes, by Hugh Robert Mill, B. Sc. ( Geo. Philip and Son, London and Liverpool, 1895).
The prevailing character of the scenery around Windermere is soft and graceful. It shrinks from all approach to that wildness and sublimity which characterise some of the other lakes, and challenges admiration on the score of grandeur only in its upper part, during the sail up which from Bowness there is gradually developed perhaps the finest and certainly the most varied panorama seen from any lake in Britain. The rest of the margin is occupied by gentle, gracefully outlined eminences. Numerous villas and cottages, gleaming amid the woods, impart and aspect of domestic beauty, and the rapidly growing villages of Bowness and Windermere rising amid bowers of sylvan luxuriance half - way up the lake, give the scene as a whole the benefit of animation without robbing it of its rusticity.
We describe the sail up the lake on p. 21, Lake Side to Bowness, and on p. 22 Bowness to Ambleside.
Windermere Village is the best starting-point in the district for the High Street range of fells, and for Kentmere and Hawes Water, nor should any visitor omit to take the splendid coach-drive to Ullswater. Of short walks the one that," par excellence," must be taken is the
 Ascent of Orrest Head( 784 ft. above the sea, 400 above the station; 1 m.; 20-30 min.) Turn in at the second of two gates together just outside the station-gates, Ambleside way. A broad path, made by the proprietor and deserving of all respect, winds up through the Elleray woods, and the proper way is shown by indicators. The view comprises a full sweep of the southern half of the Lake District, and extends s. E. and s. to Ingleborough in Yorkshire and across Morecambe Bay. Windermere and Bowness are mapped out beneath the eye, and nearly every yard of the lake is seen. The mountain amphitheatre, as far as the Lake District is concerned, extends from the Coniston Old Man, almost W., to Harter Fell, over Hawes Water N.E., and includes Wetherlam, Crinkle Crags, Scafell Pike( over a dip), Bowfell( peaked), Great Gable( behind the pass of Esk Hause), the two Langdale Pikes, and then, after an interspace of dull outline, the Fairfield and High Street groups, the latter emphasised by the conical peak of Ill Bell. The verdant but, by comparison, dull Kentdale extends s. E. towards the Yorkshire fells.
If in descending you turn sharp to the right on re-entering the broad path you will zigzag down into the public path from the station to the upper Troutbeck road-- coach-route to Ullswater. A few yards to the right after joining it, and sheltered by a grand sycamore, is the original" Elleray," the home of Professor Wilson(" Christopher North"), one of the most enthusiastic lovers of the Lake District. The modern mansion of Elleray( A. Heywood, Esq.) is nearly opposite.
Continuing past the Professor's cottage, and keeping along a narrow path as straight as possible, you cross the grounds of St. Catherine's( Earl of Bradford) and enter the Troutbeck road( 1 m. from station), 200 yards or so short of two magnificent view-points where railings are let into the wall.
 Windermere( or Bowness) to Ambleside, 4 ¾ m.; Grasmere, 9; Wythburn, 13; Thirlspot, 15 ½; Keswick( town), 21; station, 21 ½.
About three through coaches a day, five or six as far as Grasmere.
 Fares. -- Ambleside, 1s. 6d., ret. 2s. 6d; Grasmere, 2s. 6d., ret. 3s. 9d. Wythburn, 4s. 6d., 6s. 9d.; Thirlspot, 5s. 6d., 8s. 3d.; Keswick, 6s. 6d., 9s. 9d.
The coaches leave Windermere Hotel and station. The morning through coaches call at the Bowness Hotels and the Windermere Hydro.
A coach also, at somewhat lower rates, leaves the Royal Hotel, Bowness, every morning, returning in the afternoon.
By changing coaches at Grasmere, the tourist may make the round of Thirlmere( p. 59).
This is the one main thoroughfare through the Lake District, and is hardly excelled by any drive of equal length in the kingdom.
From Windermere station the road descends past St. Mary's Church and( ⅔ m.) Cook's House( p. 10), where the direct road from Bowness to Patterdale crosses, to( 1 ⅓ m.) Troutbeck Bridge( Sun Hotel). Here the lower road to Troutbeck Village and Kirkstone strikes off. Then leaving Calgarth on the left, we continue at some distance from the lake, and after passing on the left Ecclerigg and a new mansion called Langdale Chase, and on the right another and beautiful road from Troutbeck Village, reach the lake-side at Low Wood Hotel and Pier( 3 m.) Hence the view across the broadest part of the lake is very grand. On the opposite shore Wray Castle, a modern castellated building, is beautifully situated, and the mountain-background extends from the Coniston Old Man to the Langdale Pikes and Loughrigg. Scafell Pike lies back, over the dip between the peak of Bowfell and the three or four humps which go collectively by the name of Crinkle Crags.
Still finer views of the lake and its surroundings may be obtained by crossing the field behind the hotel, and ascending through a wood into the last-named Troutbeck Road, to a point about 1 ¼ mile from the hotel.
From Low Wood to Waterhead( 4 m.) the road hugs the lake. Among the woods on the slope of Wansfell( right) is Dove's Nest, occupied one summer by Mrs. Hemans, who was so enamoured of the place that in one of her letters she remarks:--
" I am so delighted with the spot, that I scarcely know how I shall leave it. The situation is one of the deepest retirement; but the bright lake before me, with all its fairy barks and sails, glancing like' things of life' over its blue water, prevents the solitude from being overshadowed by anything like sadness."
 Waterhead( Hotels-- Waterhead, County Temp.) is disfigured by a row of huge, gaunt-looking lodging-houses, recently erected. Here are the pier and station of Ambleside, and the divergence of the Langdale route from Windermere. From the bustle and activity which characterise the place all through the day, this spot has been styled the" Charing Cross" of Lakeland.
We now bid farewell to the lake, and entering the Rothay Valley proceed along a straight road to the middle of Ambleside, another great centre of coaching enterprise. The town is closely encircled by more or less lofty mountains-- Wansfell, Red Screes, Scandale Fell, Fairfield, Nab Scar, and Loughrigg. For description, see p. 31.
The road, quitting the town, crosses the Stock Ghyll beck, a few yards up which the Old Mill is seen, while on the left is the quaint little Old Bridge House. A little farther on, just behind an ugly Methodist Chapel, is the Knoll, formerly the residence of Miss Martineau. Thence we pursue the umbrageous Rothay valley to Rydal Village, crossing on the way the lateral valleys of Scandale and Rydale. At the head of the latter Fairfield presents a bold front. Across the valley a glimpse may be obtained of Fox How and Fox Ghyll( p. 35), and then Rydal Hall( the seat of the Le Flemings) is well seen on the right.
From the village a broad road leads steeply up to Rydal Mount, the home of Wordsworth( p. 35). It is almost, if not quite, hidden by the church and another house. Our road then passes through a little gorge between Nab Scar and Loughrigg, which at once opens out on to Rydal Water-- a beautiful little sheet of water, measuring ¾ by ¼ mile, with a surface diversified by two charming little islands. A little rock on the left, just as we reach the water's edge, with steps cut in it, is" Wordsworth's Seat," so called from its having been a favourite contemplating spot with the poet. Then, a little short of the end of the lake, we pass Nab Cottage, the home of the unfortunate Hartley Coleridge, who died one year before Wordsworth. Beyond it the road bends, and there is a choice for the pedestrian of two short-cuts-- the first and shortest over White Moss, the second past the" Wishing Gate"( p. 48). The coach-road, however, presents one of the most striking surprise views on the route-- the lake and village of Grasmere, suddenly revealed at an abrupt bend, with Loughrigg Terrace behind, Silver How, Easedale, Helm Crag and Dunmail Raise in front. The whole surface of the lake, broken only by a solitary green islet, is spread before the eye. A conspicuous rock on the crest of Helm Crag is called the" Lion and the Lamb."
For Grasmere and neighbourhood, see p. 46.
The road, skirting the lake, passes( 8 ¼ m.) the Prince of Wales Hotel, where a call is made. Just beyond, on the opposite side and on the old" Wishing Gate" road, is Dove Cottage, the" early" home of Wordsworth, and afterwards occupied by De Quincey( see p. 47). Then, leaving the direct road, we bowl into( 8 ¾ m.) Grasmere Village, and, passing round the church, cry a halt at the Rothay Hotel, the grounds of which adjoin the churchyard. There is usually ample time here to view the graves of Wordsworth and Hartley Coleridge, which are close together in the s. E. corner.
Quitting Grasmere we rejoin the direct road at the" Swan"( 9 ¼ m.); and a mile farther, after crossing the Tongue Gill beck, which comes down from the Grisedale Pass, between Grasmere and Ullswater, begin the long and, in places, steep ascent of Dunmail Raise, passing between Seat Sandal on the right and Steel Fell on the left. Halfway up, the pipe-track of the Manchester Waterworks is crossed. Another remarkable rock on the top of Helm Crag goes by various names. First it is not inaptly likened to an old woman playing the organ; finally it assumes a more striking resemblance to a Lion and a Lamb than the one already likened thereto, as seen from the other side of Grasmere village.
On the summit-level( 783 ft.) a confused accumulation of stones is supposed to mark the burying-place of the monarch from whom the pass derives its name-- Dunmail," last king of rocky Cumberland." Here, as we pass into that county, a full-length view of Thirlmere is presented. On the right Helvellyn sends down his brawny shoulders to the edge of the lake, and the gap straight ahead is filled up by Lonscale Fell, the eastern buttress of Skiddaw.
The village of Wythburn, 12 ½ m., stands nearly 600 feet above the sea. The descent of the" Raise" on this side is therefore not nearly so long and severe as the ascent on the Grasmere side. A quarter of a mile short of the village the new road made by the Manchester Corporation( see p. 62) along the west side of Thirlmere strikes off on the left.
Another halt is now made at the comfortable little Nag's Head Hotel, recently enlarged. Exactly opposite to it is the church--" Wythburn's modest house of prayer." The addition of a chancel has robbed this little edifice of all chance in the" smallest church" contest. It is always open to visitors.
For the ascent of Helvellyn from Wythburn, see p. 104.
We now enter the new road( a very fine one), made by Manchester, along the east side of the lake. The old road, submerged in places, may be seen below. Reaching the lake, a mile beyond the inn, we pass a rather remarkable erection of red sandstone-- the straining well of the Corporation-- through which the waters of Thirlmere start on their subterranean passage of nearly 100 miles to Manchester.
The opening of the works, which converted Thirlmere into a reservoir, took place in October 1894, after operations extending over ten years. The cost was about three millions. By the dam at the north end of the lake the water has been raised twenty feet.
The road, gradually rising, commands a full and fine view across and down the lake. The noble crag at the far end is Raven Crag. Then we quit the lake, and descend a short but steep pitch to the attractive little" King's Head" at Thirlspot( 15 ½ m.), another starting-point for Helvellyn. From hereabouts the" narrow valley of St. John" is seen in full length in front, with the" Castle Rock of Triermain" on its right, and the finely-chiselled Saddleback( poeticé" Blencathra") blocking the way at its far end.
Nearly a mile farther, close to Smeathwaite Bridge, the new road, also made by Manchester, from the dam at the end of Thirlmere into the valley of St. John, crosses our route, and then, beyond the bridge, we come into the somewhat bare and dull Vale of Naddle. At 17 miles the west side road of Thirlmere, already mentioned, converges. Then we cross Shoulthwaite Bridge, and make a long ascent, during which the most prominent features of the view are Skiddaw, Saddleback, and Helvellyn Low Man.
A little way beyond the brow of the hill we have been ascending( 1 ½ miles from Keswick) the road passes a gate from which," in the twinkling of an eye," there bursts upon us one of the finest views in the district-- Derwentwater, far below on the left; Bassenthwaite, beyond Keswick, in front, and nearly all the mountains of north-west lakeland, from Scafell Pike and Great Gable overlooking Borrowdale, at the far end of Derwentwater, to Skiddaw and Saddleback, with the forms of which the eye is already familiar. The principal intervening heights are the Buttermere, Newlands, and Whinlatter Fells. Wallow Crag, wooded from top to toe, sweeps boldly down to the east side of Derwentwater, where Lodore may perhaps be detected.
From the old Toll Bar( Castlerigg), a little farther, the direct descent to Keswick is the steepest bit on the whole journey. Coaches in returning reach this point by the other road which comes up here.
The coaches stop at one or other of the Keswick hotels in turn, and then proceed to the railway station and the Keswick Hotel.
For Keswick, see p. 51.
 Windermere to Ullswater( Patterdale) by Troutbeck and Kirkstone Pass, 13 ½ m., hotel to hotel. Coach daily about 9.45, calling at Bowness hotels previously. Fare, 6s.; ret. 8s. 6d. Also coach from Bowness( 4s. 6d., 6s.)
The coaches start back from the Ullswater Hotel about 4, after affording time for lunch and a visit to Aira Force or a sail down and up the length of the lake.
This is one of the finest coach-routes in the kingdom.
Pedestrians save about a quarter of a mile by entering Elleray Woods just after leaving the station, as directed for Orrest Head( p. 3), and keeping on as straight as possible by a broad and then a narrow path till they rejoin the coach route by the St. Catherine's drive gate( 1 m.)
Pedestrians or cyclists from Bowness should start by the lower( Rayrigg) road for the sake of the splendid view from Hammar Bank( p. 15).
The coach-route is along the Ambleside road to Cook's House( cross-roads ⅔ m.), where it enters the upper Troutbeck road, and after passing St. Catherine's( Earl of Bradford) affords a magnificent view of the upper and middle reaches of Windermere, with an amphitheatre of mountains extending from Coniston Old Man to the High Street range, right ahead of us. Scafell Pike lies back( N.W. by W.) between the peak of Bowfell and the unmistakable Crinkle Crags. On the right are the finely situated mansions of Chapel Ridding, Browhead, and Hole Hird. The view reaches its climax at Low Borrans( 1 ¾ m.), which, oddly enough, is on the top of a rise from which the road descends to( 3 m.) Troutbeck Church, a very neatly kept edifice with a modern Perp. East window. The quaint village of Troutbeck is above our route on the left, and is described under Ambleside( p. 33). Passing( 3 ¾ m.) the Queen's Head rebuilt, on the sign of which were Shenstone's well-known lines," Whoever has travelled life's dull round," etc., we join the road through the village, and commence the long ascent which takes us with little break to Kirkstone Pass. Below, on the right, are the deepening valley and the green" Tongue" of Troutbeck, backed by the steep slopes of Ill Bell and High Street. Our road skirts the eastern slopes of Wansfell, and presently, after a sharp bend to the left, reveals a view down Stockdale to Ambleside, Windermere( poor as seen from here), little Blelham Tarn, Hawkshead, and the Coniston range.
At Kirkstone( 7 m.)," Travellers' Rest" Inn, the road from Ambleside comes up a break-back pitch, and we are within 100 yards of the top of the pass( 1500 ft.) The inn is 1476 feet above sea-level, and boasts itself as the highest inhabited house in England. In reality it is beaten easily by the" Cat and Fiddle" near Buxton, which stands nearly 1700 feet above the sea; and by a few feet by one or two others in Derbyshire and Yorkshire respectively, while in Durham there is an inhabited house as much as 2000 feet above the sea. There is a good echo from the shed beyond the inn.
After a breathing space the journey is resumed. Red Screes towers finely on the left, and, as we breast the summit, the Kirk Stone, which" gives to the savage pass its name," is passed on the same side a few yards off. At the same time a charming front view into Patterdale reveals itself. The lake at the foot is Brotherswater, too square to be termed picturesque. It is said to owe its name to the drowning of two brothers. A steep descent of 2 ½ miles brings us to it close to the Brotherswater Inn( 9 ½ m.), whence to Patterdale the road is comparatively level, and threads a green well-cultivated valley.
Several short but fine glens come in on the left. Caiston, some way short of Brotherswater, Dovedale opposite to it, and Deepdale beyond it. The latter two are finely headed by Dove Crags and the stern side of Fairfield. On the right the only break in the line of hills is the Hartsop valley, descending from Hayeswater and High Street. St. Sunday Crag forms a striking flank of Deepdale, and Place Fell rises over Ullswater. The lake itself is hardly seen till we reach the village of Patterdale( 12 ¼ m.) at the P.O. One Quarter mile farther is the Patterdale( private) Hotel; then comes the Church, picturesque amongst its yews, beyond which, mid umbrageous surroundings, we cross the Grisedale beck and reach( 13 ½ m.) the charmingly situated Ullswater Hotel.
For Ullswater and neighbourhood, see p. 77.
 Windermere to Hawes Water(" Dun Bull" Inn), over Nan Bield, or High Street.
Carriages must go round by Ings, 2 ½ miles on the Kendal road, and cannot proceed beyond Kentmere village( 6 m.), which stands just where the interesting part of Kentmere begins. This of course saves 6 miles of walking, but loses the grand view in crossing Garburn Pass from Troutbeck to Kentmere village. Pedestrians are advised to proceed as in the Ullswater route( p. 10) to a point( 2 m.) just beyond Low Borrans. There take a steep lane to the right, which leads into the Troutbeck and Staveley road. Turn right along this for a ¼ mile, then turn abruptly left( there is no short-cut), and along a lane that joins( 3 ¼ m.) a steep lane coming up from near Troutbeck Church. Hence it is a hard pull of 1 ¼ miles to the top of Garburn Pass( 1450 ft.) The view westwards grows finer and finer all the way up. Below is a full view of Troutbeck. The fells westward will be identified from previous descriptions. Perhaps the most conspicuous is Great Gable, which rises like the roof( not the gable end) of a house.
For the High Street Range leave the track at the top of the pass, and proceed with several ups and downs over Ill Bell( the conical hill), Froswick( somewhat similar), and Thornthwaite Crag, marked by a columnar cairn, whence, bending right, you soon get alongside a wall which is continued to the tableland that forms the summit. A view E. and N.E. over Hawes Water and the Eden valley to the Pennine range discloses itself. 2 ¼ hours is good time from Windermere to Ill Bell and 3 hours to High Street.
The High Street Range continues northward for several miles till it sinks to the plain between Pooley Bridge and Penrith. Here and there along it are traces of the old Roman road which gave it its name. It commands very fine views. The most striking feature from both Ill Bell and the southern part of the range is the lovely full-length view of Windermere.
The shortest way down from the summit to the" Dun Bull"-- the highest house in the valley below-- is by the scree that drops due E. to the ridge N. of Blea Water, and then on the Blea Water side of it.
Other descents are over Kidsty Pike( 1 mile N.), s. E. by s. to Nan Bield, or by the N. of Small Water.
From Garburn Top to Kentmere the road winds down through rock, gorse, and bracken for 1 ½ miles to Kentmere village. Approaching the bottom, we have below us, on the right, Kentmere Hall, the birthplace( 1517) of Bernard Gilpin, a reformer who was called the" Apostle of the North." The inn at Kentmere has been abolished, but there is a Temperance House, on the far side of the bridge, where light refreshments may be had. From it the road ascends to the upper part of the dale, the separation of which from the lower part is marked by two charming little falls.
Another way into the upper dale is to follow a lane that leads from a little short of the church to the reservoir, on approaching which cross the meadows into the Nan Bield track.
The upper part of Kentmere is very fine. Rainsbarrow Crag is a strong feature on the left, on which side Ill Bell and Froswick descend even more abruptly than on the opposite( Troutbeck) side. Our track passes some farmhouses, and then skirts a kind of" tongue" of Harter Fell, on the right, and overlooks the Kentmere reservoir. A likely-looking track to some quarries must be avoided; then the track up between Harter Fell( right) and High Street( left) is conspicuous. A stiff pull lands you on the top( 9 ½ m.) of Nan Bield, 2100 feet above the sea. On the other side is an equally abrupt descent through a carpet of parsley-fern to Small Water. This tarn and Blea Water above are amongst the most picturesque in the district. A long mile farther the track enters the rough mountain-road from Kendal to Hawes Water( 16 m.), and ¾ mile farther we reach the Dun Bull Hotel( good), which is a mile s. of Haweswater.
For Haweswater, Mardale Green, etc., see p. 88.
 Windermere to Bowness On-Windermere. Station to Landing Stage, 1 ⅔ m. ' Buses to and from Bowness Hotels( 6d.) in connection with all trains.
( A) The direct road, more or less on the descent the whole way, turns sharp down to the left from the station. All the divergences meet again. The new and straighter right-hand branch on leaving the village( ¼ m.) is also the shorter. Good views are obtained from the top of a' bus, and recent clearances have increased the interest for the pedestrian. The two villages are rapidly becoming one. About half - way the Congregational and R.C. Churches are passed on the left, and St. John's Episcopal Church on the right.
 Cyclists require caution, especially on the sharp hill which descends to Bowness village. " Scorching" is a punishable offence.
( B) Round by Hammar Bank( Miller Brow), 2 ¼ m. Follow the Ambleside road as far as the cross-roads( ⅔ m.) at Cook's House( p. 10). There turn left down the Rayrigg road. In 300 yards, at Miller Brow, a magnificent view of the lake and its surroundings bursts on the eye-- of the same character as that already described from Orrest Head and the Troutbeck road, but closer. Then, passing the Windermere Cemetery on the left, we cross the Miller ground footpath, and reach the level of the lake. On the right, marked by a pole, is Adelaide Hill, so called from a visit paid by the late Queen Dowager to the spot.
The last mile into Bowness is almost entirely through woods, at first those of Rayrigg Hall, a gray old-fashioned mansion on the right. It was for two years the summer residence of William Wilberforce. Bowness is entered at the bottom of the village.
( C) By path, 2 ¼ m. A delightful walk, though in one part-- Heathwaite-- streets and roads have superseded the old path.
Follow the Bowness road( p. 15) till( ⅓ m.), just beyond the divergence of the new road, another new road goes off square to the left. This takes you in 200 yards or so to the crossing of a beck, at which the road that skirts the new Windermere Recreation Ground, a memorial of the Diamond Jubilee which cost £ 4000, begins. You may( a) turn to the right at the end of this road, and re-enter the main road half - way to Bowness, or you may continue up a new street past Heathwaite Farm, and 100 yards farther bear to the right( splendid view up the lake,) and in the next field( b) bear right again, and reach the top of Bowness village, or( c) from the last-named bend cross a wall by a stone stile, continue over a succession of stiles past Helm Farm, and enter, three fields farther, the path that drops steeply to Bowness on the near side of Brant Fell, disclosing a lovely view during the descent to the village. This is the longest route.
 Tel. Address--" Bowness, Windermere"; Postal," Bowness On-Windermere."
 Hotels. -- First Class, alphabetically arranged:-- Belsfield, with beautiful grounds overlooking lake; Old England, on the lake-side; Royal, in the village; all within 2 or 3 minutes of landing-stage. The old Crown is for the time being closed to visitors.
Also the Ferry, pleasantly situated on other side of lake, 1 m. away; steamer at frequent intervals; Storrs Hall, in extensive grounds, 2 miles s.
Also, good second - class: Stag's Head, in the village.
 Hydro. ( first - class), the Windermere, well up above lake, with fine view; 5 minutes from landing-stage.
For Distances and Tourist Tickets see under" Windermere"( p. 1).
The cost of a" return" to Bowness, whether by steamer or train, is one shilling more than to Windermere village.
 Four Horse Coaches daily from the Belsfield, Old England and Royal, and the Hydropathic to Ambleside, Grasmere, Keswick, Coniston, and Ullswater, also round the Langdales and round Thirlmere. Steamers, ten to twelve times a day, to all parts of the lake. The pier has been rebuilt and extended.
 Public Conveyance round the Langdales( 5s.)
 ' Buses( 6d) from hotels to and from all trains at Windermere Station.
 Steamers up and down the lake 10-12 times daily( except Sunday).
 P.O. in village open 8-8. Chief despatch about 8 P.M. Tel. Off. open 8-9; Sun. 8-10, 5-6. Head Office at Windermere.
 Branch Office( no Tel.) ¼ of way up to Windermere Station.
 Banks. -- Liverpool, London& Midland, open 9-3( Thurs. 1).
 Churches. -- The Parish Church of Windermere( St. Martin's) is situated in the centre of Bowness village. Full Sunday services 10.45, 6.30. For other churches between Bowness and Windermere see pp. 1 and 15.
 Boating. -- 1s. an hour; 1s. 6d. with man. There is an abundant supply of boats. The liveliest times are the yacht-racing days( Wed. and Sat. throughout July).
 Golf Course( a very fine one) on Kendal Road, 1 ¾ m. from village.
This charmingly situated village, the" Port" of Windermere, stands on the edge of a small bay, opposite Belle Isle. Its ground plan is most irregular, but, like Windermere village, it has been greatly improved architecturally of late years, and has abundant hotel and lodging accommodation. Before Windermere village sprang up, Bowness was the only place of any size in Windermere parish. The Parish Church, St. Martin's, is an ancient structure with a square tower, and a finely-painted chancel window, some of the glass having been brought from Furness Abbey. The interior was restored in 1871 at a cost of £ 8000, and has since then been further embellished. The walls are frescoed, and adorned with texts, which exhibit some curious spelling. At the E. end of the s. aisle is a monument of Richard Watson, Bishop of Llandaff( d. 1816). He was born at Heversham, in another part of the county, in which village his father was schoolmaster for upwards of forty years, and during the latter part of his life resided at Calgarth, 2 miles N. of Bowness.
 View Points 
 Biskey How, 170 ft. above the lake, 7 min. walk from the Church. This commanding little eminence, rising just behind the Hydropathic, has been laid out and planted as a Public Park. It is reached by quitting the Windermere road either at the top of the steep pitch above the P.O., or at the first through street higher up( Biskey How Road), ⅓ mile above the P.O. The view comprises most of the lake and the mountain-circle from Crinkle Crags to the High Street and Kentmere ranges.
 Brant Fell, 250 ft. above the lake, 10-12 min. walk. Start by the steep lane near the E. end of the church, and( 7 min.) turn square along a broad cross-drive, which curves like a hook up to the top. This cross-drive connects Brant Fell with Biskey How, and by using it both heights may be visited without an intermediate descent of any importance. The view-point is a level platform, and the prospect an extended repetition of that from Biskey How-- the Old Man, scraps of Helvellyn and Skiddaw being included in it.
 Walks From Bowness 
There are beautiful walks on the Bowness side of the lake, and by crossing to the Ferry or Belle Grange the tourist may explore the Lancashire side, which is also very interesting.
( 1) To Windermere Village, see p. 15. The starting-points from Bowness are( a) the lower( Rayrigg) road for the Hammar Bank walk;( b) the steep lane that starts E. of the church for the path that passes under Brant Fell-- diverge to the left when you come to an open field just beyond Brant Fell Farm( ¾ m.), and have passed a private drive gate on the left; then cross a succession of stiles;( c) for the more direct paths, along the Windermere road to Biskey How road( ⅓ m.), or a new street ¼ mile farther, just short of St. John's Church.
( 2) To the Ferry Nab( ¾ m.), and by ferry-boat to Ferry Hotel( 1 ¼ m.) The ferry-boat takes carriages as well as foot-passengers-- charge for latter, 2d., which covers the return; the boat crosses about six times an hour.
There is also direct communication with the Ferry Hotel by ordinary steamer, and by the Esperance, which sails at intervals of about ¾ hour throughout the day( single, 4d. and 3d.; ret., 6d. and 4d.)
Pass the steamer-piers, and, at the fork, 100 yards farther take the right-hand branch, which passes the cemetery and crosses two fields into the main road.
The walk may be agreeably extended up the steep hill s. of the hotel to Sawrey( 1 m., nice little hotel), or northward from the hotel round the little bay and alongside the lake to Belle Grange( 2 m.) and High Wray( 3 m.), whence by road the distance to Ambleside or Waterhead is 4 miles, 2 to Hawkshead, and 5 back to the Ferry by the west side of Claife Heights and Sawrey.
The Ferrry may be utilised for a circular drive from Bowness round either end of the lake. In both cases the east side should be taken on the outward journey. Distances:--( a) Bowness to the Ferry, 1 ¼ m.; Lake Side Hotel and Station, 7 ½; Swan Hotel( Newby Bridge), 8 ¼; Beech Hill Hotel( new) 12; Bowness, 15. It is a hilly drive or ride all the way, but the return from Newby Bridge to Bowness is strikingly beautiful.
( b) Bowness to the Ferry, 1 ¼ m.; High Wray, 4 ½; Waterhead( or Ambleside), 8 ½; Low Wood Hotel, 9 ½; Bowness, 13 ½.
 The Lake 
During the season, June to October, the boats run from 10 to 12 times a day in each direction. April, May and first two or three weeks in October, 4 to 8 times. Winter months 3 times.
( 1) Bowness to Lake Side, 6 m. Single, 1s. 6d., 1s.; return 2s., 1s. 6d. Whole round of the lake, 3s., 2s. 6d.
As the scenery appears to more striking effect-- crescendo rather than decrescendo-- in sailing from Lake Side to Bowness than from Bowness to Lake Side we shall only state in describing the sail down that the boat crosses from Bowness to the Ferry( 1 m.); then recrosses to Storrs( 2 m.); whence it makes a direct run to Lake Side, where passengers for the Furness Abbey( 17 m. from Lake Side) and Coniston( 42 m.) round take train. The platform is alongside the landing-stage, and the hotel( first - class) close by.
Lake Side is the terminus of the Midland and Furness route to Windermere( see Introductory, p. xii).
 Newby Bridge, with its time-honoured hostel, the" Swan," is a short mile s. of the station. From it a pleasant climbing excursion may be made to the Finsthwaite Fell on the west side of the river. The key may be had at the hotel, but it is hardly required. The distance to the top is nearly a mile, and the height of the hill above the level of the sea is 605 feet. The tower commands a delightful prospect, which embraces nearly the whole of Lake Windermere, together with the mountains round its head: the upper part of Helvellyn is also seen. In the opposite direction the sands at the mouth of the Leven, towards Lancaster, are visible, with much of the intervening district. The course of the Leven below Newby Bridge is very beautiful.
In the reverse route, Lake Side to Bowness, the lake is at first visible to a little beyond Bowness, and over its far end are seen Helvellyn, recognisable by a notch, and the High Street range. The shores are beautifully wooded, but with the exception of Gummer's How on the right, the flanking hills are of inconsiderable elevation. The tower crowning Finsthwaite Height, at the foot of the lake, is a memorial of officers and privates who distinguished themselves in the French war in 1799.
As we proceed, passing Stott Park and Graythwaite on the left, and the charmingly placed little Beech Hill Hotel on the right, we have intermittent glimpses of Coniston Old Man, Wetherlam, Bowfell, and the Langdale Pikes in the N.W., while conspicuous in front is Storrs Hall-- now an hotel-- famous in history as the place where Mr. Bolton, the then proprietor, entertained Scott, Wordsworth, Prof. Wilson, and Canning in 1825, the occasion being a regatta, which they witnessed from the little temple that juts out into the lake close by the hotel pier.
Hence, passing Ramp Holme, we cross to the Ferry( p. 19), mid scenery of increasing loveliness. Then, skirting Belle Isle, described on p. 2, we enter Bowness Bay, which all through the season presents the busiest appearance of any place on the lake, being the principal resort of the tourist, the yachtsman, and rowing parties. A row of boat-houses and boat-building shops hardly enhances its picturesqueness.
( 2) Up from Bowness to Ambleside( Waterhead), 5 m.; single, 1s., 9d.; return, 1s. 6d., 1s.
This is justly accounted one of the finest sails in the kingdom-- indeed in Europe, the gradual development of the scenery being a striking feature.
From the pier the boat passes between Belle Isle and Hen Holme. Just beyond the latter is Lady Holme, so called from a small chapel of the Virgin that used to occupy it, but all traces of which have vanished. On the east side the towers and villas of Windermere village rise amid much luxuriant leafage, while on the west the Claife Heights are wooded from head to foot. A look up Troutbeck N.E. reveals the High Street range, with Red Screes due N. over Wansfell, while right in front are Loughrigg and the bluff of Fairfield. Then the prospect opens out in a north-westerly direction-- the Langdale Pikes being the first important peaks to display themselves, and then, in succession, Great End, Bow Fell, Crinkle Crags, with Scafell Pike rising over the dip between the last two, the Wrynose Pass, Wetherlam, and the Old Man. Meantime we pass on the east Calgarth Hall( Col. Watson), and, presently, a little white cross which commemorates the drowning of two youths many years ago.
Then passing more than one handsome villa, Langdale Chase, etc., we make a call at the finely-situated Low Wood Hotel, conventionally but not exclusively sacred to honeymooners. Here is the widest part of the lake, whose western shore is embellished by the battlemented tower of Wray Castle, a modern erection.
Proceeding from Low Wood the boat doubles a little promontory and discloses the church spire and pier of Ambleside. Across the lake, Brathay Hall, the hamlet of Clappersgate, and the campanile of Brathay Church are conspicuous.
At Waterhead all manner of conveyances are waiting to convey passengers to Ambleside( ¾ m., 3d.) and Grasmere( 4 ½ m., 1s.); also, from the early steamer, to Keswick. A level and almost straight road leads into Ambleside.
 Bowness or Windermere to the Ferry, Hawkshead, and Coniston.
The Ferry, 1 ½ m.( by road); Sawrey, 2 ½; Hawkshead, 5 ½; Coniston( Waterhead Hotel), 9;( Station), 9 ¾. Add 1 ½ m. for Windermere. Return journey by Skelwith Bridge and Waterhead( Windermere), 13 to Windermere Village, 14 ½ Bowness.
 Coaches daily( 4s., 6s. ret.) from both Windermere and Bowness.
This is one of the best of the circular day excursions. It may be extended, if desired, to Furness Abbey, returning the same day. There is also time at Coniston for an ascent of the Old Man, or for an excursion on the lake to Lake Bank( hotel) at the lower end( p. 26).
A short but agreeable sail by steamer also brings us to the Ferry, where the shores of the lake contract to rather less than half a mile apart.
 The Ferry Hotel. -- On the point-- a station for the steamers-- is the Ferry Hotel( p. 17), which has supplanted the old sycamore-shaded Inn. It occupies a delightfully shady promontory, and the sycamores are still there.
In the woods, 5 min. walk from the Ferry, is a castellated building called the" Station," from which, at a trifling charge, you can look through glass of different colours and see all the four seasons.
A little beyond the Ferry the road leaves the lake, and by a sharp pitch, followed by a slight drop, reaches Far Sawrey( pleasant little hotel); then, affording a fine view in front, with the Old Man, Bowfell, and the Langdale Pikes conspicuous, it reaches the shores of
 Esthwaite Water, a small lake two miles in length, and one - third of a mile in breadth. The scenery around it is pleasing, but destitute of any striking features. A peninsula projects from the west shore, and pleasantly relieves the monotonous regularity of the margin. The Cunsey Beck, which issues from it, enters Windermere a mile and a half below the Ferry. Many well-placed villas enliven the banks. Near the head of the lake is the small but ancient market-town of
 Hawkshead

[ Hotels. -- Red Lion( small but comfortable) and several clean village Inns.
 Post town, Ambleside, 5 m.; Desp. about 5.30 P.M.; Sun. 1.15.]
St Michael's Church, a structure of great antiquity, is placed on a rocky eminence immediately over the town, commanding fine views of the adjacent country.
" The grassy churchyard hangs Upon a slope above the village school."
Inside the church is an altar-tomb enclosed by a screen, with effigies of William and Margaret Sandys( 1578). The present east window was given by Col. Sandys in 1893. It has a memorial brass on each side.
The school was founded in 1585 by Archbishop Sandys, a member of the above-mentioned and ancient family, still seated in the neighbourhood. Wordsworth, and his brother, the late Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, were educated here. In the verses of the former allusion is frequently made to
" The antique market village, where were passed My school-days."
The school has lately been restored.
Hawkshead is one of the quaintest little places in the north of England. The old" Flags" that were once its most interesting and curious feature in a passage leading out of the Square have been removed.
The cottage in which Wordsworth resided during his schooldays is just beyond the archway that crosses the lane in front of the" Red Lion"( not the one leading into the square). Pedestrians proceeding to Coniston should continue up the lane a little way, and then take a good field-path which joins the coach-route close to the top of Hawkshead Hill, and a little short of High Cross. The views over the head of Windermere are charming.
The high-road reaches, half a mile out of Hawkshead, the old hall where the abbots of Furness held their courts, now a farm-house( note the mullioned window), and there turns square up Hawkshead Hill to( 7 m.) High Cross. At the hamlet a little short of this the pedestrian may again with advantage diverge to the right, and, crossing the Ambleside and Coniston road, reach Coniston by Tarn Hows, as described on p. 42. The high-road descends steeply through the wooded demesne of Monk Coniston Hall( V. Marshall, Esq.), affording beautiful peeps of the lake, and then comes to the charmingly-situated Waterhead Hotel.
 Postal Address--" Lancashire."
 Distances, etc.-- London, 278 m.( Tourist Ticket, 76 s. 4d., 58s. 6d., 39s. 6d.); Birmingham, 173 m.( 49s. 9d., 35s. 3d., 24s. 6d.); Manchester, 100 m.( 28s. 6d., 18s. 9d., 14s.); Liverpool, 98 m.( 26s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 13s. 6d.); Leeds, 103 m.( 26s. 6d., 18s. 6d.)
 Hotels. -- Waterhead( first - class, beautiful situation, ¾ m. from station, on Ambleside road); Crown, in village, ¼ m. from station; several small inns.
 Public Conveyances to Ambleside( 3s. 6d.) about three times daily. Four Horse coaches to Windermere( 4s.) every afternoon.
 P.O. open 7-8; Sun. 8-10. Chief despatch about 6.10 P.M.; Tel. Off. open 8-8; Sun. 8-10.
 Banks. -- Liverpool, open 10-3( Sat. 1); Lancaster, Tues. and Fri. 10-3.
 Church in village. Sun. services, 10.30 A.M.; 6 P.M.
 Coniston. -- The village of Coniston is situated half a mile from the lake, but the Waterhead Hotel stands a meadow's space from the water's edge at its head, and boats and guides can be obtained. Many days may be agreeably spent here, as the excursions in the vicinity are numerous. The ascent of the Old Man( p. 102) is one of the most remunerative in the district.
For day visitors the alternatives are( 1) Tour of Coniston Lake in the Gondola( 10 m.); 1s., 9d.; return, 1s. 6d., 1s.
 Coniston Lake is a beautiful sheet of water, as seen either in sailing up it or from an elevation( Tarn Hows, to wit) above its head. The straightness of its shore-line, however, prevents any striking combinations or surprises. It is 5 ½ miles long, and nowhere as much as half a mile wide. On its eastern side, just opposite Waterhead Hotel, is Tent Lodge, for a while the residence of the late Poet Laureate, and Brantwood, 1 ¼ miles farther down, for nearly forty years that of the late John Ruskin. The great teacher and writer breathed his last here on January 20th, 1900, and was buried in Coniston Churchyard on the following Thursday. Previous residents at Brantwood were Linton, the wood-engraver, and Gerald Massey, the poet. Coniston Hall, nearly opposite, was once occupied by the Le Fleming family. It is now a farm-house. A couple of islands diversify the surface on the east side, and at the south end is Lake Bank Hotel( a comfortable little house). Hence by road it is 5 ½ miles to Greenodd on the Ulverston and Lake Side Railway( coach about twice a day).
On the return journey the" Old Man" and his neighbours assert themselves with ever-increasing dignity. Helvellyn, too, is seen.
( 2) Ascent of Old Man, see p. 102.
( 3) Furness Abbey and Back, by rail( or back by circular tour viâ Lake Side); see p. 98.
 Walks From Coniston

( 1) Tilberthwaite Gill, 2 ½ m. This is a very remarkable little chasm at the foot of Wetherlam. It has been made accessible by a system of little ladders, bridges, and galleries.
From Coniston the road follows for 1 ½ miles the return route to Ambleside( p. 29), and then turns left up the lovely valley of Tilberthwaite, reaching in another mile the stream beside which the track leads up to the Gill. At the top is a small waterfall.
Returning to the road the tourist may, by passing through High Tilberthwaite Farm, close by, reach Dungeon Ghyll, the road, just drivable, entering the route of the Langdale round from Ambleside( p. 38) at Fell Foot.
( 2) Tarn Hows, 2 ½ m. from the village by the Hawkshead road. Pass the Waterhead Hotel, and, 1 mile farther, turn up a wood-fringed lane on the left-- the same route as that taken the reverse way by the Ambleside coaches on their outward journey( for the scene, see p. 42). The return may be made either by continuing on to the Ambleside Road near High Cross( p. 25), or descending from the dam at the foot of the tarn into Yewdale, by a narrow path down Tom Gill(" Glen Mary").
 Coniston to the Duddon and Eskdale and Wasdale.
Seathwaite, 5 m.; Traveller's Rest, Ulpha, 8; Stanley Gill Hotel, 13 ½; Santon Bridge Inn, 18 ½; Wasdale Head Hotel, 27.
There is no carriage-road between Coniston and Ulpha except by going round through Broughton-- an addition of about 5 miles. From Ulpha over Birker Moor the road is fairly good, and tolerable-- trying for cyclists-- beyond Stanley Gill.
From the village you pass under the bridge at the station, and in a mile or so come out on to the open fell, proceeding as straight as you can along the southern slope of the Old Man, across the stream that flows out of Goat's Water, to the top of Walna Scar( 2000 ft.). Thence a rough descent of 2 miles leads into the road up the Duddon Valley at a point half a mile N. of Seathwaite Church, rebuilt. In the churchyard rest the remains of the Rev. Robert Walker," The Pastor" alluded to in Wordsworth's sonnet as a worthy compeer of Chaucer, and an abstract of whose character is given in the seventh book of the Excursion--
" A priest abides, before whose life such doubts Fall to the ground."
 See note to Wordsworth's Poetical Works.
The" Wonderful Walker," a title by which this worthy minister is best known, held the curacy of Seathwaite for sixty - six years, and died in 1802 at the ripe age of 92. This we learn from the simple tomb, which records also the death of his wife two years previously, and at the same age.
His stipend, to begin with, was £ 5 a year, but by combining various other trades and occupations, such as lawyer, doctor, wood-cutter, and beer-seller, this truly" wonderful" man is said to have" amassed a fortune." Those were, however, the days when a man was regarded as" passing rich on forty pounds a year."
About half a mile from the Church, across a field or two, are the" Stepping Stones," celebrated in Wordsworth's Sonnets to the Duddon. This is the most beautiful part of the Duddon Valley, whose stream for some distance higher up runs through a romantic gorge.
The comfortable little" Traveller's Rest" at Ulpha is 3 miles down the valley, and here, joining the highway from Broughton, our road turns sharp uphill to the right, and in a mile reaches open ground at Crosbythwaite Farm, whence for the next few miles it traverses the almost level upland of Birker Moor, descending in the last mile a steep pitch through Dalegarth Woods, with Stanley Gill( p. 44) Force close by but unseen on the right, to the new Stanley Gill Hotel( commodious), which is close by the Beckfoot Station, on the Ravenglass and Boot" Toy" line.
For Stanley Gill and the rest of the route to Wastwater, see p. 44.
 Coniston to Ambleside( 8 ½ m.), Windermere( 13), and Bowness( 14), by Skelwith Bridge.
 Coaches every afternoon.
All or nearly all the coaches return by this route, which is a very charming one.
Starting northwards the road traverses Yewdale, passing underneath a splendid line of crags as far as( 1 ½ m.) the opening of Tilberthwaite( p. 27). Hereabouts the trimly-cut yews of High Yewdale Farm are noticeable. The particular old yew succumbed to the storm of December 1894. On the right the hills slope up more gently to Tarn How( p. 27).
Two miles farther we reach the top of the Pass-- Oxenfell, 500 feet-- and a splendid view reveals itself in front over Elterwater Lake and Village, with a mountain screen which includes Bowfell, the Langdale Pikes, and Helvellyn.
In another ½ mile or so the road to Colwith Force and the Langdales drops abruptly to the left. This is the easiest driving route from Coniston to Dungeon Ghyll. Our own road, which is now part of the Langdale tour( p. 36), descends with almost equal steepness to Skelwith Bridge( good little hotel), by which we cross from Lancashire into Westmorland.
Hence an old road, too steep at first for any but the lightest vehicles, strikes away direct to Grasmere, 4 m. The first steep pitch, however, may be avoided by following a new and beautiful road behind the hotel, at the cost of an additional half - mile.
The rest of the way to Ambleside is along the verdant Brathay Valley, under Loughrigg( p. 36).
 Distance from Windermere Station, 4 ¾ m.; Waterhead Pier, ¾ m.
 Hotels. -- Queen's, Salutation, White Lion, in the village; Waterhead and( smaller) County( Temp.) at Waterhead. All good tourist quarters.
 Distances and Tourist Tickets. -- See Windermere: and add 4 ¾ miles and about 2s. for return coach fare. Same by Lake Side and Waterhead.
 Public Conveyances to Windermere village( 1s. 6d., return 2s. 6d.); Grasmere and Keswick( 5s., 7s. 6d.); Ullswater( 3s. 6d., 5s.); Coniston( 3s. 6d., 5s.); Langdale round( about 4s.)
 P.O. open 7-8; Sun. 8-10. Chief despatch about 7 P.M.( Sun. 4.15); delivery, 7. Tel. Off. open 8-8, Sun. 8-10 and 5-6.
 Banks. -- Lancaster, Liverpool, open 9.30 - 3.30( Thursday 1).
 Church. -- St. Mary's-- Sunday services 10.45 and 6.30.
Ambleside, a small and irregularly-built town of 2360 inhabitants, is situated on steeply-inclined ground ½ to 1 mile from the head of Windermere, near to the spot formerly occupied by the Roman station Dictis. Lying immediately under Wansfell, and surrounded by mountains on all sides, except towards the south-west, its situation is one of great beauty, and consequently during summer it is much frequented. The church of St. Mary, completed in 1854 from designs by Gilbert Scott, stands nearly in the centre of the valley, a little to the west of the village. It is built of the dark-grey stone of the district, but the spire-- distressingly heavy and out of harmony with the natural surroundings-- is of freestone. The interior is handsome, and is seated for about 1000. The principal stained-glass window is a memorial to the poet Wordsworth, and was presented by a number of friends and admirers, both English and American. A fine electric organ has lately been placed in it. The old church of St. Ann's is situated in the upper part of the town. It was rebuilt in 1812.
Ambleside is a deservedly favourite centre for tourists of every kind. Its natural beauty and convenient situation, combined with its very extensive coaching facilities render it during the season one of the most frequented spots in the Lake District. About 10 A.M. there are coaches running in every direction.
The whole neighbourhood is a favourite residential locality, and amongst the best known names connected with it are those of Wordsworth( Rydal Mount, p. 35); Dr. Arnold( Fox How, p. 35); W.E. Forster, M.P.( Fox Ghyll, p. 35)' Miss Martineau( the Knoll, p. 6); and Mrs. Hemans( Dove's Nest, p. 5).
 Excursions From Ambleside 
Numerous excursions may be made from Ambleside; and the walks in the immediate neighbourhood are still more abundant.
The Rothay Valley, on the border of which the town stands, is well wooded, and watered by several streams, the principal being the Rothay itself, which flows from Grasmere and Rydal lakes, and joins the Brathay shortly before entering Windermere. Tributaries of this are the Stock Gill, Scandale, and Rydal Becks, all of which thread short valleys N.E. and N. of the town. Upon Stock Gill, a tributary to the Rothay, there is a fine fall, or force, in a copsewood, about half a mile from the centre of the town, the road to which begins behind the White Lion and Salutation Hotels. The fall, or rather falls( for there are four, two upper and two lower), are 100 feet in height. Portions of all four are visible from the usual standpoints; but the views may be pleasingly varied by descending the bank to the stream. At present there is a charge of 3d. for admission.
 Wansfell Pike, 1581 feet. Up and down, about 1 ½ hr.
The way up and down this commanding height is now clearly shown by path or posts. It leaves the Stock Gill lane about 100 yards beyond the entrance to the falls, and at once commences an ascent which in the last part is very steep. The features of the view are-- practically-- the whole expanse of Windermere and the charming valleys of the Rothay and the Brathay, the former leading up the grand mountain-chain that extends from the Old Man to the Langdale Pikes; the latter terminating in a lovely glimpse of Rydal and Grasmere. Kirkstone Top, with its white inn and flanking heights, is also well seen.
The climber, by following a line of pegs and then a rough lane, may make his way down into the middle of Troutbeck village, entering it near the Mortal Mann Inn-- 2 m. from the top, and then return by the coach-road, which, after affording a magnificent view of Windermere, joins the main Windermere and Ambleside highway close to Low Wood hotel. This is a round of about 8 miles, and will occupy a full half - day.
Troutbeck is one of the quaintest of villages, a mile long, and with scarcely two houses alike from end to end. The church has a handsome modern E. window, and a very useful clock. In the village are thirteen fountains or troughs-- some dedicated and inscribed.
 Loughrigg Fell, 1101 feet, which flanks the Rothay Valley on the west side, affords another delightful half - day's excursion from Ambleside. Its chief peaks overlook Grasmere and Rydal respectively. You may start from Ambleside, along the Langdale road, quitting it at Clappersgate( 1 m.), and ascending by a steep winding path, or by taking a path across the meadows past the church, crossing the Rothay by Miller Bridge, and turning up to the left in a few yards by a track that leads to Brow Head Farm. Hence you may wander as you please amidst a variety of beautiful views, especially westward. Windermere, however, does not appear to such advantage as from Wansfell.
From the highest peak a sharp descent may be made to the west end of the Loughrigg Terrace walk( p. 36) at the s. W. corner of Grasmere, whence Grasmere village is reached by Red Bank( p. 41), or a return may be made alongside Rydal into the Rothay valley-- 3 miles from Loughrigg Terrace to Ambleside, or from the top of Red Bank you may turn left, and in 3 ½ miles reach Ambleside by the Great Langdale Road, which passes round the west and south side of Loughrigg, affording a good view of Loughrigg Tarn and through the hamlet of Clappersgate.
 Rydal. -- The village of Rydal, supposed to be a contraction of Rothay Dale, is placed in a narrow gorge, formed by the advance of Loughrigg Fell and Nab Scar, at the lower extremity of Rydal Water, one mile and a quarter from Ambleside. Here, in the midst of a park containing great numbers of noble forest trees, stands Rydal Hall, the seat of Stanley Hughes le Fleming, Esq. The celebrated falls are within the park, and strangers desirous to view them must take a guide from one of the cottages near the Hall gates. The fall below the house is beheld from the window of an old summer-house. Amongst the juvenile poems of Wordsworth there is a sketch of this cascade:--
" While thick above the rill the branches close, In rocky basin its wild waves repose, Inverted shrubs, and moss of gloomy green, Cling from the rocks with pale wood-weeds between; Save that aloft the subtle sunbeams shine On withered briars that over the crags recline; Sole light admitted there, a small cascade Illumes with sparkling foam the impervious shade: Beyond, along the vista of the brook, 
Where antique roots its bristling course overlook, The eye reposes on a secret bridge, Half Grey, half - shagged with ivy to its ridge."
The chapel, erected by the then Lady le Fleming in 1824, from its prominent position, arrests the stranger's notice the moment he arrives.
Farther up the stream, 6 minutes' walk, is the Upper Fall, higher and in itself finer than the lower.
 Rydal Mount, for many years the residence of the poet Wordsworth, stands on a projection of the hill called Nab Scar, above the church, and is approached by the road leading to the Hall. It is private property, and visitors are not admitted to either house or grounds. Mrs. Hemans in one of her letters describes it as" a lovely cottage-like building, almost hidden by a profusion of roses and ivy." The grounds, laid out in a great measure by the hands of the poet himself, though but of circumscribed dimensions, are so artfully while seeming to be so artlessly planned, as to appear of considerable extent.
The best way of visiting Rydal is to make the circuit of the Rothay valley, a three - mile walk.
Quitting the town by the archway on the south side of the Queen's Hotel, or by a footpath that starts from the Rydal road near the foot of the hill, you cross the meadows, as in the route to Loughrigg( p. 33), but, instead of turning uphill beyond Miller Bridge, continue along the carriage-road. This road passes many charmingly-placed villas, one of which, Fox How, on the right, was the residence of the celebrated Dr. Arnold of Rugby, and the next to it, Fox Ghyll, on the left, that of the late W.E. Forster, beyond which we soon come to Pelter Bridge, close to Rydal village. The views across the valley to Fairfield and Red Screes are very fine. By crossing the bridge the Keswick road will be gained, and the tourist can then either return to Ambleside or proceed to Rydal, which is 300 or 400 yards farther.
Those who are fond of long walks ought to abstain from crossing the bridge, and, keeping to the left, pursue the road behind the farmhouse called Coat How, which leads along the south-west shore of Rydal Mere. This lake being passed, the road ascends the hill-side steeply for some time, until it reaches Loughrigg Terrace, a splendid gravel path overlooking Grasmere Lake, with its single islet, and commanding the Vale of Grasmere to the top of Dunmail Raise and the shoulders of Helvellyn. Then, climbing again, it joins on Red Bank the Grasmere and Langdale road. Hence the tourist has the choice of return routes as given under the head of" Loughrigg" on p. 34. There is a foot-bridge between Grasmere and Rydal Lakes.
 This is by far the best station for viewing the lake and vale of Grasmere. Probably it was this very view that called from Mrs. Hemans her sonnet entitled
 A Remembrance Of Grasmere
" O vale and lake, within your mountain urn, Smiling so tranquilly, and set so deep! Oft doth your dreamy loveliness return, Colouring the tender shadows of my sleep With light Elysian; for the hues that steep Your shores in melting lustre, seem to float On golden clouds from spirit-lands remote, Isles of the blest;-- and in our memory keep Their place with holiest harmonies. Fair scene, Most loved by evening and her dewy star! Oh! never may man, with touch unhallowed, jar The perfect music of the charm serene! Still, still unchanged, may one sweet region wear Smiles that subdue the soul to love, and tears, and prayer!"
 Langdale Excursion

Numerous Char-A-Bancs every morning. Fare for the roundabout, 4s.
The favourite excursion with the temporary residents in Ambleside is that through the two Langdales. Great Langdale is the finer valley of the two, but the journey out is made viâ Little Langdale, on account of the striking scenery disclosed while crossing from one valley to the other by Blea Tarn. The ascent from Little Langdael to Blea Tarn is very rough and steep. Colwith Force in Little Langdale is also well worth seeing.
In returning, the route leaves Great Langdale at the Church at Chapel Stile( Elterwater) and crosses by Red bank to Grasmere, making the entire roundabout 21 miles. This, however, may be reduced to 18 by continuing down Great Langdale by the direct route from Chapel Stile.
Leaving Ambleside by the road to Clappersgate, we wind on the banks of the Brathay( near the source of which we will be ere long), under the craggy heights of Loughrigg Fell. A modern church( Brathay) will be observed in a charming situation on the south bank of the river. " Sweeter stream scenery," says Wilson," with richer fore and loftier background, is nowhere to be seen within the four seas."
Proceeding, we reach, 2 ¾ miles from Ambleside, the hamlet of Skelwith Bridge, where are bobbin mills and a good little hotel( Fleming's). ( Here a new road, affording beautiful views, strikes off to Elterwater village in Great Langdale. Three minutes' walk up it is Skelwith Force, a picturesque fall, though less than 20 feet in height.) Crossing the bridge, we enter Lancashire, only to reenter Westmorland, after a sharp rise and fall, 1 ½ miles farther, at Colwith Bridge, just beyond which, in a dell close beneath the road, is Colwith Force( adm. 3d.), one of the most striking of Lake District waterfalls, especially after heavy rain. It is best seen from the bottom, which is reached by a ladder. It consists mainly of two parallel falls, with several smaller ones above, in total height about 50 feet.
We pass, in another mile, the village of Little Langdale, which contains a pleasant little inn with sleeping accommodation," The Tourist's Rest," as well as another a little way farther on. Then Little Langdale Tarn becomes visible on the left; on the right is Lingmoor, a hill which serves as a partition between the two Langdales. Wetherlam, a finely-shaped mountain, occupies a conspicuous position in a chain of lofty hills on the south-west. A little beyond the termination of the enclosed land, among a few trees, are two dwellings called Fell Foot, 7 miles from Ambleside. One of them was formerly an inn, whereat the gangs of pack-horses were refreshed previous to their ascent of the mountain-passes of Wrynose and Hardknott-- this being the route by which the manufactures of Kendal were transported to the western coast. Taking the road to the right, where the open fell begins, and ascending some distance between the mountains, a solitary pool of water, named Blea Tarn, is perceived in the bottom of an elevated depression.
Those magnificent objects, seen almost as soon as the climb is commenced--
" The two huge peaks That from some other vale peer into this"--
are the two Pikes of Langdale. The more westerly one is named Pike o' Stickle-- the other, and higher, Harrison Stickle. The cottage which we pass on the left near the tarn was the abode of Wordsworth's" Solitary" in the Excursion. Having passed the tarn, the road winds down a steep descent into the head of Great Langdale, that part of it called Mickleden, through which are the tracks over the Stake into Borrowdale, and over Esk Hause into Wasdale, the latter right before the eye. Here is situated the old Dungeon Ghyll Hotel, about 2 miles from the foot of the Stake Pass, and the last house from Ambleside thither. The new Dungeon Ghyll Hotel is a short mile lower down the valley. The public conveyances from Ambleside put up at each in alternate weeks, affording time for lunch and a visit to the celebrated Dungeon Ghyll Force, which occupies a hollow in the steep fell-slide ⅓ mile from the latter and ⅔ mile from the former hotel. It is reached from both by path.
 Dungeon Ghyll Force( more correctly spelt" Gill") is a waterfall formed by a stream which runs down a fissure in the mountain's side. The natural features of the place justify the name. The access to the deep recess into which the water-- often a mere thread-- falls from a height of nearly 60 feet, is rendered easy by a ladder and planks. A natural arch has been made by a large stone having rolled from a higher part of the mountain, and got wedged in between the cheeks of rock. Over the bridge thus formed ladies have been known to pass with the intrepidity of Wordsworth's" Idle Shepherd Boy."
"' Cross if you dare where I shall cross-- Come on and tread where I shall tread: The others took him at his word, And followed as he led. It was a spot which you may see, If ever you to Langdale go; Into a chasm a mighty block Hath fallen, and made a bridge of rock; The gulf is deep below; And in a basin black and small Receives a lofty waterfall."
Dungeon Gill must not be confused with the more open but beautiful Mill Gill, which rushes down in a succession of cataracts from Stickle Tarn just under Harrison Stickle, and passes close by the new hotel.
From Dungeon Ghyll there are two favourite mountain walks, each about 8 miles in length, and occupying from 3 to 4 hours' ordinary walking.
( a) To Rosthwaite in Borrowdale by the Stake Pass( Pony and Guide, 16s.) Proceed from the old( upper) hotel by a rough but almost level track to the head of Great Langdale( 2 miles). Hence, from a sheepfold, the pony-track winds up the hollow on the right, attaining the summit-level( 1570 feet) in 3 ½ miles from the hotel. Then it drops steeply into Langstrath, as the wildest arm of Borrowdale is called. The first habitations are at the hamlet of Stonethwaite( 6 ½ miles), whence by road it is 1 ½ miles( cut the corner near the church by a field-path) to the hotels at Rosthwaite( p. 66).
( b) To Wasdale Head by Esk Hause( 8 miles); Pony and Guide, 17s. Esk Hause( 2370 ft.) is the highest pass in the Lake District except the" Sticks" between Patterdale and Keswick. This, too, is one of the finest walks.
Proceed as in( a) to the sheepfold at the head of the dale; there take the clearly-marked path to the left. This pursues a very tortuous course up the steep breast, between Rossett Gill and Bowfell, from the top of which it drops a few hundred feet to Angle Tarn; then rises and falls again before commencing the sharp climb up to the cairn and shelter on Esk Hause( 4 ½ miles). Thence it is downhill all the way, first under the frowning crags of Great End Head, past Sprinkling Tarn; then, at the top of Sty Head, joining the Borrowdale and Wasdale path( p. 70), and finally descending the side of Great Gable into the green meadows of Wasdale.
For the ascent of the Langdale Pikes, see p. 108.
The carriage-road down Great Langdale commences at the old hotel and passes( 1 mile) the new one. About 1 ½ miles beyond the latter are the Thrang slate-quarries, amongst the largest in the district, and the little church of Langdale( Chapel Stile), whence, as well as from Elterwater village, ½ mile farther, a road strikes up the hillside, crossing Red Bank into Grasmere. A large straggling sheet of water, lying amongst the meadows, which now comes into sight, is Elterwater Tarn, at the head of which stands Elterwater village. The stream feeding the tarn is crossed by a bridge, a short distance above the tarn. Near the bridge are the works of the Elterwater Gunpowder Company. A little farther, in a recess on the flank of Loughrigg Fell, is Loughrigg Tarn, a lovely spot on which Wilson has composed some beautiful lines. Ambleside is only three miles beyond.
An alternative, easier and very beautiful route from Elterwater village is by the new road to Skelwith Bridge, which strikes out of the old one about half - a-mile on the way.
At Rothay Bridge, ½ mile short of Ambleside, the Windermere road goes off to the right, and at Waterhead, ⅔ mile farther, enters the Windermere and Keswick highroad( p. 5).
The public conveyances, as before stated, leave the main road of the valley at Langdale Church, whence is a sharp climb to High Close, a splendidly situated mansion at the top of the pass between Elterwater and Grasmere. About here Helvellyn and the Vale of Grasmere come into view. The descent of Red Bank into Grasmere, which follows, is one of the steepest in the district, and negotiations( so far abortive) have been going on for some time for not only lessening the gradient, but also for making the road more attractive from a picturesque point of view.
For Grasmere, see p. 46.
 Ambleside to Coniston by Barn Gates, 7 m.; returning by Oxenfell. Total Distance, 16-17 m.
Public conveyances( 3s. 6d. single; 6s. return) two or three times daily.
The outward route, passing( 1 m.) Clappersgate and( 3 m.) the Barn Gates Inn, affords fine views, retrospective and over Windermere. There are also commanding views of Coniston Lake during the descent from High Cross( 5 m.), where we join the route from Windermere( p. 25).
As a rule, however, the conveyances take a by-road a little short of High Cross, and reach by a steep ascent the beautiful upland called Tarn Hows, whence from one point there is a charming view of the full length of Coniston Lake; from another a particularly fine mountain-panorama, with a beautiful pine-girt lake in the foreground. This lake formerly consisted of two little sheets of water-- High Tarn and Low Tarn-- which, however, have now been made one by the construction of a little dam at the bottom of the lower one( see also p. 28).
Hence the descent to the main road again, which is entered about a mile short of the Waterhead Hotel at Coniston, is very lovely. It affords at first a view into the depths of Yewdale and Tilberthwaite on the right. The village and station of Coniston are from ½ to ¾ mile beyond the" Waterhead."
For a description of Coniston, and the return route by Oxenfell, see pp. 26 and 29.
 Ambleside to Ullswater, 9 ½ m.
 Coaches( 3s. 6d.; return 5s.) every morning, returning in the afternoon. The return journey is usually made by the valley and village of Troutbeck, which adds four miles to the distance.
The best way for pedestrians is by a lane and newly-opened path that forms a continuation of the lane that leads to Stock Gill( p. 32).
The first three miles of this journey, up to the Kirkstone Inn, is appropriately called the" struggle out of Ambleside." In that distance the road, very badly engineered, rises 1300 feet, an average gradient of 1 in a little over 12. The steepest parts of the" struggle" are just out of Ambleside, and the last pitch up to the inn.
The rest of the way is described in the Windermere and Ullswater excursion on p. 11. The variation in returning affords the opportunity of inspecting the whole of the quaint village of Troutbeck(" Mortal Man" Hotel, p. 33), and an exquisite view of Windermere from the road between Troutbeck and Low Wood.
 Ambleside to Eskdale( Woolpack Inn), 15 m.; Stanley Gill Hotel, 16 ½; and Wasdale Head, 30.
This road, the only one from Ambleside to the western part of the district, is, in consequence of the roughness and steepness of the Wrynose and Hardknott Passes, impassable for any but light conveyances. It, however, introduces the tourist to Wastwater at its lower end, the only approach by which that unique Cumbrian lake can be viewed to advantage. The antiquary may also visit Hardknott Castle, and the simple lover of the picturesque will hardly find a more beautiful scene of its kind in the kingdom than that afforded by Dalegarth Force( Stanley Gill) in Eskdale.
The route up the Brathay valley and Little Langdale is described, as far as Fell Foot( 7 m.), in the Langdale Round( p. 36). Here, at the quaint yew-girt farm, commences the long and steep ascent of Wrynose Pass( 1270 ft.), between Wetherlam and Pike o' Blisco. At the summit( 9 m.) is the" Three Shire Stone," marking the point at which Westmorland, Cumberland, and Lancashire meet. Hence a more gradual descent, through a somewhat dreary valley, on the Lancashire side of the" infant" Duddon, brings us to the sequestered farm of Cockley Beck( 11 m.), where we leave the Duddon, which flows away to the left to scenes described on p. 28, and commence the shorter but very steep climb of Hardknott Pass( 1290 ft.) On attaining the summit-level the green and beautiful valley of Eskdale lies at our feet, and after a steep descent of a mile we pass, on the right, a hundred yards or so distant, the site of the old Roman Camp called Hardknott Castle. This camp was specially explored by the Cumberland and Westmorland Archaeological Society in 1892. It comprises, says Mr. Calverley," a circular building 15 feet in internal diameter, with walls 4 or 5 feet high, probably a temple or shrine; close by was a three - roomed house with a bath and an elaborate system of hypocausts, the whole conjectured to have been a small temple and a wayside tavern. The main camp is an enclosure of about 250 feet square, with loose stones around and all about."
The road now affords a splendid view up Eskdale to the giant range of Scafell. On the left is Harter Fell, and, 2 miles beyond the camp, we come to the comfortable little Woolpack Inn, whence as well as from Boot, a mile farther, is a track 5 miles in length over Burnmoor to Wasdale Head.
At Boot( 16 m.; clean little inn," Mason's Arms") the little Eskdale railway running up from Ravenglass( 7 m.) has its terminus. At its first station, Beckfoot( ½ m.), which our road also passes, is a new and commodious hotel, the" Stanley Gill."
This is the point from which to visit Dalegarth Force," Stanley Gill"( key at Dalegarth Old Hall, a most quaint farm, on the far side of the bridge over the Esk. It is best to take a guide and walk up the gill to the Fall, which is not so remarkable for its volume as for its exquisitely beautiful setting of sheer rock, festooned with foliage and ferns of varying kind, all vying with each other in beauty.
From Beckfoot the road proceeds down Eskdale, passing( 18 m.) the" King of Prussia" Inn, and then, from Eskdale Green, crossing to Irton Road Station and( 20 m.)" Bower House" Inn in Miterdale. At Santon Bridge Inn( very tidy), 1 ½ miles farther, it turns square to the right, and in another 2 ½ miles passes ¼ mile to the right of the little village of Strands( 2 clean little inns).
We now enter the woods of Wasdale Hall, which lies below on the left. Hitherto Wastwater has remained unseen, but at a turn of the road, just as the wood is left behind, the whole lake bursts upon the eye, a simple, unadorned sheet of water 3 miles long, ½ a mile wide-- very regular in shape, and 258 feet in depth, both the greatest and the mean depth, as we learn from Mr. Hugh Robert Mill's Bathymetrical Survey, being in excess of those of any of the sister lakes. The main characteristic of the view is its compact sternness. On the right are the Screes, rising as steeply as scree mingled with rock can rise to a height of about 1500 feet; beyond them are Scafell and Scafell Pike, while the beautiful pyramid of Great Gable blocks the valley at the head of the lake; Yewbarrow( razor-backed) and Middle Fell are the flanking mountains on the left.
The varied tints for which the Screes are famous is due to the iron-ore which runs through them strongly contrasting with the deep brown of the crags, and the verdure of the little bracken-sprinkled patches dotted about here and there.
The road skirts the north-west shore of the lake for its whole length, and a mile beyond the head reaches the Wasdale Head Hotel, one of the best-known mountain hostelries in the kingdom, and enlarged within the last few years.
For Wasdale Head, etc., see p. 71.
 Distances( by road). -- Windermere Station, 9 m.; Waterhead Pier, 5; Bowness, 10; Ambleside, 4 ¼; Coniston, 12; Patterdale( Ullswater), 14; Keswick, 12 ½.
 Hotels. -- Prince of Wales, finely situated on the lake; Rothay, with extensive grounds in the village( both first - class); Moss Grove( good temp., enlarged) in the village; Red Lion, Swan.
 Coaches from Windermere Station, Ambleside, and Keswick frequently throughout the day. From Waterhead Pier in connection with all steamers.
 Excursions at popular fares to Coniston, Ullswater, the Langdales, and round Thirlmere.
 Church. Daily services. Sun. 10.30, 6.30, etc.
 Bank. -- Liverpool, Mon., Wed., Fri., 12-2.
 P.O. open 7-8; Sun. 8-10. Chief desp. about 6.15 P.M.; Sun. 3.45; del. 7 A.M. Tel. Off. open 8-8; Sun. 8-10.
 Grasmere. -- This famous little village is situated at the head of the lake, 4 miles from Ambleside. Its intrinsic beauty, its central and convenient situation, and the almost life-long association of Wordsworth with either the place itself or the immediate neighbourhood, have in combination placed it amongst the most frequented resorts in Britain by every class of tourist. Its annual sports, held on the third Thursday in August, have a world-wide fame.
 Wordsworth's Tomb. -- The remains of" the great bard"( who died 23rd April 1850) are interred in the churchyard of Grasmere-- a natural resting-place for one whose attachment to his" dear native regions" led him to adopt the following language:--
" Dear native regions, wheresoever shall close My mortal course, there will I think on you: Dying, will cast on you a backward look, Even as this setting sun Doth with the fond remains of his last power Still linger, and a farewell lustre sheds On the dear mountain-tops where once he rose." 
 Prelude.
 So styled by Coleridge.
The grave is marked by a plain stone, and the simple inscription of his own and his wife's names. Beside him lie other members of the family, and" close behind the family group lies Hartley Coleridge, at whose funeral the white-haired Wordsworth attended not very long before his own death. This spot under the yews, beside the gushing Rothay, and encircled by green mountains, is a fitting resting-place for the poet of the region. He chose it himself, and every one rejoices that he did."
 Miss Martineau.
Near the Prince of Wales Hotel and on the old road stands Dove Cottage, the" early home of Wordsworth." It has been purchased as a storehouse for memorials, etc., of the poet, and a charge of 6d. is made for admission. The house was afterwards occupied by the English opium-eater, De Quincey. From Dove Cottage Wordsworth removed to Allan Bank, on the other side of the village.
To this cottage( which is now partially hidden from those on the highway by the intervention of some later-built houses) Wordsworth brought his bride in 1802, having previous to his departure composed his" Farewell."
" Farewell, thou little nook of mountain ground, Thou rocky corner in the lowest stair Of that magnificent Temple which doth bound One side of our whole vale with grandeur rare; Sweet garden-orchard, eminently fair, The loveliest spot that man hath ever found!"
The whole valley of Grasmere teems with memorials of Wordsworth.
Nab Cottage( p. 6), the home of Hartley Coleridge( d. 1849), is by Rydal Water, on the Ambleside road, 1 ¼ miles beyond the" Prince of Wales."
The singularly-shaped hill called Helm Crag is conspicuously visible from Grasmere. Its apex exhibits so irregular an outline as to have given rise to numberless whimsical comparisons. Gray compares it to a gigantic building demolished, and the stones which composed it flung across in wild confusion. And Wordsworth speaks of--
" That ancient Woman seated on Helm Crag."
It is usually called the Lion and the Lamb.
About a mile from Grasmere, on an eminence over which the old road to Ambleside passes, and exactly opposite to the middle of the lake, is the Wishing Gate. It has been so called time out of mind from a belief that wishes formed or indulged there have a favourable issue-- a superstition which prompted Wordsworth's beautiful poem commencing--
" Hope rules a land for ever green: etc. etc. Not such the land of Wishes."
Apart from any adventitious interest, the Gate is an excellent station for viewing the lake.
Easedale Tarn( 2 ½ m.) is the bourn of a favourite walk from Grasmere. It lies well up in the recesses of Easedale, which runs in a north-westerly direction from the village between Helm Crag and Silver How, and the way is by a path that, just short of the tarn, climbs to the left of a conspicuous cataract called" Sour Milk Gill." There is a small refreshment hut close by the tarn, which is of its kind one of the most beautiful of the district.
The melancholy fate of John and Sarah Green, who lived in this vale, is now pretty generally known through De Quincey, who published an account of it, while resident in the locality, which is now contained in his Recollections of the Lakes.
Continuing along Far Easedale-- the larger fork of the valley-- a track, indistinct in places, crosses the col at the head( about 1650 ft.); drops into the head of the Wythburn Valley; rises again to Greenup( 2000 ft.), and then drops steeply into the Langstrath branch of Borrowdale, joining the Stake Pass( p. 40) at or a little short of Stonethwaite. Total distance to Rosthwaite, 8 m., 3-4 hrs.
 Round Grasmere Lake-- a walk of about 4 miles. This should be taken for the sake of the view from Loughrigg Terrace, already commented on( see p. 36). The points of divergence from carriage-roads are-- in one direction-- the top of Red Bank, 1 ½ miles on the Langdale road; in the other, from the Ambleside road by a path that starts nearly a mile beyond the Prince of Wales Hotel--( this point may also be reached by the old" Wishing Gate road"), and crosses the stream between Grasmere and Rydal lakes by a foot-bridge, whence the path runs through a wood to the Terrace. The walk along the Terrace commands the most lovely and comprehensive view of Grasmere Lake, village, and valley and its mountain amphitheatre.
 Grasmere to Patterdale( Ullswater) by pony-track over Grisedale Pass, 9 m.
Good walkers may take Helvellyn on their outward journey and return by the pass, which rises to a height of 1929 feet above sea-level, or they may cross Helvellyn and then return by the Ambleside coach.
The Keswick road is left just beyond the bridge over Tongue Gill, 1 ¼ miles from the church. In this gill ¼ mile up is a beautiful little fall, marred, however, by the pipe-track of the Thirlmere waterworks, which crosses the stream just beneath.
On reaching open ground a long pull begins between the Fairfield range and Seat Sandal to the top of the pass, just beyond which, on the left, is Grisedale Tarn, a fine sheet of water separating Seat Sandal from Helvellyn-- the track up which may be seen winding up the breast of Dollywaggon Pike in front. After this it is all downhill to Patterdale, the road through which is entered half - way between the Ullswater Hotel at Glenridding( l) and the village( r). During the descent of Grisedale the crags and edges of Helvellyn present a magnificent appearance on the left, and St. Sunday Crag rises very steeply on the right.
The ascent of Fairfield may easily be made from Grasmere in 2 hours, by leaving the high-road at the" Swan" and proceeding by a lane that leads to the foot of a very steep pitch between two walls.
For Grasmere to Keswick, see p. 7.
 Distances and Tourist Tickets. -- London, 289 m.( 81s., 63s. 3d., 43s., rail throughout; 83s. 10d., 47s., by steamer from Lake Side to Ambleside, thence coach;" Midland" only); Birmingham, 190 m.( 57s. 2d., 41s. 1d., 28s.); Manchester, 121 m.( 34s. 6d., 24s. 7d., 18s.); Liverpool, 119 m.( 36s., 28s. 2d., 17s. 6d.); Leeds, 113 m.( 29s. 10d., 16s. 6d.) Newcastle, 96 m.( 26s. 3d., 14s.); Edinburgh, 131 ½ m.( 38s. 9d., 19s. 6d.)
 Hotels. -- Keswick, A large first - class family house at the station.
In the Town. -- Royal Oak, Queen's, Lake, George, King's Arms, Station.
Temperance. -- Blencathra, Skiddaw. The above are good Tourist and Commercial houses.
Also( first - class family) Derwentwater at Portinscale, 1 ½ m. from station; Lodore and Borrowdale, on Borrowdale road, 3 ½ and 3 ¾ m. from station(' buses, 6d.), and( smaller) Scawfell and Royal Oak at Rosthwaite in Borrowdale, 6 ½ m. from station.
 Churches. -- Crosthwaite( Parish) Church, ¾ m. from centre of town; Sunday services, 10.45, 6.30; St. John's( in town), 10.30, 6.30, etc.
 P.O. in main street, open 7-8; Sun. 8-10. Chief del. about 8 A.M.( Sun. 9): Desp. about 6 P.M. Tel. Off. open 8-8; Sun. 8-10, 5-6.
 Banks. -- Cumberland Union, Carlisle& Cumberland, Liverpool, open 10-3; Wed. 10-12.
 Pop. ( 1891) 3905. Market Day, Sat.
 Four Horse Coaches( morn. and aft.) to Thirlmere, Grasmere, Ambleside, Windermere station and Bowness. Circular tours daily to Borrowdale, Buttermere, round Thirlmere, etc. Coaches from Troutbeck Station( Cumb.) to Ullswater in connection with trains.
Keswick, a market-town in the parish of Crosthwaite, is situated on the south bank of the Greta, in a large and fertile vale, little more than a mile from the foot of Skiddaw, and half a mile from Derwentwater. Its principal thoroughfares are Main Street, St. John's Street, Station Road, Lake Road, Penrith Road and Southey Street. Many additional ones have lately been laid out, and a splendid recreation ground, Fitz Park, has been acquired for the town through the generosity of the Hewetson family, and greatly through the personal exertions of the late H.I. Jenkinson, to whom the fine entrance gates in Station Road are a memorial. It occupies the ground between the river and the railway on both sides of Station Road, covering an area of 36246 acres. The Hewetsons not only gave the land, but also endowed the Mary Hewetson Cottage Hospital, which stands on the site of the Old Monks' Hall at the extreme west end of the ground, facing the back of Greta Hall. The eastern portion of the Park between the Keswick Hotel and the river is laid out as a garden, planted with shrubs, and affording facilities for tennis and bowls; while the western part is devoted to the more robust sports of golf( 9 holes), football, cricket, etc. Opposite the" Jenkinson" gate is the Museum, erected as a memorial of Mr. J. Fisher Crosthwaite, a highly esteemed public benefactor. It contains an excellent model of the Lake District( Flintoft's). Keswick has long been famous for its black-lead pencils. The mine from which the plumbago( black lead) used to be obtained is situated at Seathwaite in Borrowdale, but it has long been closed. The manufactories( admission free) are on either side of the street on the town side of Greta Bridge. The Town Hall, erected in 1813, upon the site of the old Court House, stands in the centre of the town. The clock bell, which was taken from a building that formerly stood on Lord's Island in the lake, bears the letters and figures" H. D. R. 1001," which may be regarded rather as the founder's number than as proof of antiquity. The Parish Church, an ancient structure dedicated to St. Kentigern, stands ¾ of a mile distant, on a slight acclivity to the right of the Portinscale road. It contains a recumbent marble statue of the poet Southey( d. 1843), with an inscription by Wordsworth; also statues of Lord and Lady Derwentwater. In the churchyard the ashes of the poet, his first wife, his eldest son, and of other members of his family repose. Greta Hall, the residence of s. T. Coleridge at the beginning of the century, and of Southey from 1805 till 1843, occupies a knoll some way to the right of the road at Greta Bridge, and on the way to Crosthwaite Church and Portinscale. The scenery visible from the windows has been finely sketched by Southey himself in the following lines:--
"' Twas at that sober hour when the light of day is receding, And from surrounding things the hues wherewith day has adorned them Fade like the hopes of youth till the beauty of youth is departed: Pensive, though not in thought, I stood at the window beholding Mountain, and lake, and vale; the valley disrobed of its verdure; Derwent retaining yet from eve a glassy reflection, Where his expanded breast, then still and smooth as a mirror, Under the woods reposed; the hills that calm and majestic Lifted their heads into the silent sky.". . .
A modern church, dedicated to St. John, stands on the east side of the town. It was erected by the late John Marshall, Esq., who became lord of the manor by purchasing the forfeited estates of Ratcliffe, Earl of Derwentwater, from the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, to whom they were granted by the Crown. Pettitt's Picture Gallery on the Ambleside road is well worth a visit, as are Abraham's and Mayson's Models. These accurate models of the Lake District represent the labour of many years. For the tourist they possess peculiar interest, exhibiting, as they do, an exact representation of the country through which he is travelling. Abraham's and Mayson's are on the scale of six inches horizontal to the mile, and Filntoft's three inches. The vertical scale of Abraham's is twelve inches. There are also a good Public Library, and a School of Industrial Arts( metal-work and wood-carving), as well as the Ruskin Linen Industry and School of Embroidery, instituted by the Rev. H. D. Rawnsley. Bathers will find Bathing Sheds specially erected for their convenience on the lake about a mile from the centre of the town.
Keswick and its immediate surroundings form by far the most convenient and important centre for carriage-folk who wish to explore the wildest recesses of the Cumberland mountains. Pedestrians will find it to their advantage to put up for a night or two at one or more of the comfortable country tourist hotels at Rosthwaite, Wastwater, Buttermere, or Ennerdale. The first thing, however, to be done on arrival at Keswick is to familiarise oneself with the charms of
 Derwentwater. 
This beautiful lake is about 7 minutes' walk from the town. In form it approaches to the oval, extending from north to south about three miles, and being in breadth about a mile and a half," expanding within an amphitheatre of mountains, rocky but not vast, broken into many fantastic shapes, peaked, splintered, impending, sometimes pyramidal, opening by narrow valleys to the view of rocks that rise immediately beyond, and are again overlooked by others. The precipices nowhere overshoot the water, but are arranged at some distance; and the shores swell with woody eminences, or sink into green pastoral margins. Masses of wood also frequently appear among the cliffs, feathering them to their summits; and a white cottage sometimes peeping from their skirts, or seated on the smooth knoll of a pasture, seems placed there purposely to adorn it. The effect is heightened when in calm weather the lake reflects the whole picture, and so transparent is the water that pebbles may be easily seen fifteen or twenty feet below its surface."
It may be added that while its shape is symmetrical without being formal, its size is neither so large as to merge the character of the lake in that of the inland sea, nor so circumscribed as to expose it to the charge of insignificance. The admirers of nature are divided in opinion as to the respective merits of the different lakes. There can be no question, however, that while the gracefulness and glorious variety of Windermere gives that lake a perhaps more enduring charm than that possessed by any other, while, also, there is a stateliness about Ullswater which is perhaps unique among the sisterhood, Derwentwater wins the palm for concentrated loveliness.
Fair fishing may be had in the lake and river; and the neighbouring lake of Bassenthwaite abounds in pike. Trout run up to 4 or 5 lbs., and pike is a specialty of Bassenthwaite.
The best view-points are--( a) Friar's Crag, ¾ mile from the centre of the town, at the end of the boat-landings.
( b) Castle Head, a wooded knoll 300 feet above the lake, and reached by proceeding half a mile along the Borrowdale road. This is certainly the best point-- the Orrest Head of Derwentwater. From it the while expanse of the lake is seen, with its beautiful islands, the entrance to the valleys of Borrowdale( s.) and Newlands( W.), the lovely crags and the falling waters of Lodore and a mountain panorama extending from the Dodds of Helvellyn( s. E.) all the way round to Saddleback( N.E.) Scafell Pike and Scafell fill up the distance a little W. of s., and just to the right of the graceful little Castle Crag, which seems almost to choke the entrance to Borrowdale. The more noteworthy peaks to the right of it are Maiden Moor and Catbells, dropping precipitously into the lake; Robinson, High Stile and Red Pike, behind the Newlands depression; the hump of Causey Pike; Grasmoor and Grisedale Pike( a fine peak), Lord's Seat and Barf sinking into Bassenthwaite Lake; Skiddaw and( through the trees) Saddleback. Beyond Bassenthwaite, Criffell in Dumfriesshire may possibly be seen. On the left, between us and Lodore, the splendidly-wooded Wallow Crag sinks abruptly to the lake.
( c) Applethwaite, 2 ½ miles N.W. by road. This was Southey's pet view, but few visitors will consider it equal to that from Castle Head.
( d) A very fine view of the two lakes and the Vale of Keswick, with their fell surroundings, is obtained from a gate on the Windermere road, about 1 ½ miles from Keswick( see p. 9).
A whole day or any part of it may be agreeably devoted to a sail or row all about the lake. The favourite trip is to Lodore. It should not, however, be forgotten that the lake is subject to squalls, principally generated in Borrowdale, and those who are at the wrong end of the lake when a wind arises and have to row back will not forget it.
The principal Islands in the lake are Derwent Isle, Lord's Island, and St. Herbert's Isle. Derwent Isle is that nearest the foot of the lake; it contains about six acres, and now belongs to John Marshall, Esq. Lord's Island, which is rather larger in size than the last-named, has upon it the hardly perceptible remains of a pleasure-house, erected by one of the Ratcliffes with the stones of their deserted castle, which stood on Castlerigg. This island was once connected with the mainland, from which it was severed by the Ratcliffes by a fosse, over which a drawbridge was thrown. St. Herbert's Isle, placed nearly in the centre of the lake, derives its name from a holy hermit who lived in the seventh century, and had his cell on this island. There are the remains of walls still existing, but it is highly improbable that they formed any part of the hermit's cell, though vulgar tradition to that effect has been accepted as true by some guide-writers. To St. Cuthbert of Durham this" saintly eremite" bore so perfect a love as to pray that he himself might expire the moment the breath of life quitted the body of his friend, so that their souls might wing their flight to heaven in company.
There are several other islets, the largest of which is Rampsholm, and at irregular intervals, generally after a hot summer, the lake exhibits a singular phenomenon, called the Floating Island. It is really the vegetable covering of a portion of the lake bottom, and is supposed to be detached through the pressure of gas generated by decaying vegetable matter. Its superficial extent varies in different years( from an acre to a few perches), and very possibly the enlarged or reduced area is due to pre-existing conditions of temperature and the entire or partial absence of rain. The locality of the Floating Island is the bay near Lodore, about 150 yards from the shore.
" And thus through many seasons' space This little island may survive; But nature, though we mark her not, Will take away, may cease to give.
Perchance when you are wandering forth Upon some vacant sunny day, Without an object, hope, or fear, Thither your eyes may turn-- the isle is passed away;
Buried beneath the glittering lake, Its place no longer to be found; Yet the lost fragments shall remain To fertilise some other ground."A walk over Latrigg," Skiddaw's Cub," will furnish the stranger with innumerable delightful prospects; and, in fact, it is impossible to stir in the neighbourhood of Keswick without having scenery of the finest description before the eye. The route is the same as that to Skiddaw( p. 113) for 1 ¾ miles from the station; then it bends back and is carried on to the top between barbed railings. The limitations imposed on the visitor during this walk materially affect the enjoyment of it. One mile and a half from Keswick, on an eminence to the right of the old road to Penrith, is a Druidical Circle, measuring 100 feet by 108, consisting of forty - eight stones, two or three of which are 7 feet high.
 Bassenthwaite Water 
 Tour round the Lake:-- Swan Inn, 4 m.; Pheasant Inn, 8; Castle Inn, 10; Keswick, 18. The railway skirts the west shore of the lake as far as Bassenthwaite Lake Station, which is ¼ mile beyond the Pheasant Inn.
This lake, having the misfortune to be placed in juxtaposition with another of very superior beauty, is much neglected. It is, nevertheless, worthy of a visit, on account of the beautiful view of Skiddaw to be obtained from its shores, and also for its angling. There are good inns at either extremity, at which all necessary fishing accessories may be obtained. The circuit of the lake makes a very good drive from Keswick.
The lake lies 3 miles to the north of Derwentwater, from which it is separated by low meadows, which in wet weather are flooded occasionally to such an extent as to convert the two lakes into one: it is 4 miles long, and not quite 1 mile broad. On the way to it, one mile from Keswick, we pass the pleasant village of Portinscale. ( Derwentwater Hotel, very good; see p. 51.) Keeping to the right, one mile beyond, the road strikes off from the village of Braithwaite to Thornthwaite( where there is a fair inn-- the" Swan"). Between the two villages the tourist has Grisedale Pike directly before him. The road then slightly rises, forming a fine terrace, whence the beautiful vales of Thornthwaite, Braithwaite, and Keswick are well seen. Skirting the base of Lord's Seat and Barf, and after making many ascents and descents, disclosing delightful views of the lake, backed by Skiddaw, we pass the comfortable" Pheasant Inn," and cross the railway at Bassenthwaite Lake Station, 1 ¼ miles beyond which the road crosses the Derwent at its exit from the lake( 9 ½ miles from Keswick) by Ouse Bridge. Half a mile farther we come to the" Castle Inn," a ¼ mile beyond which is Armathwaite Hall, the seat of T. Hartley, Esq., whence the return journey under Skiddaw calls for no remark except that a deviation of half a mile takes us by Southey's favourite view of Derwentwater.
 The Round Of Thirlmere 
Public conveyances most days. Fare about 4s.
A very fine drive of nearly 20 miles, going by the Valley of St. John and the east side of Thirlmere, and returning by the beautiful road made by the Corporation of Manchester along the west side. The distance may be reduced to about 12 miles by crossing the dam at the north end of the lake instead of making the full circuit. The Penrith road must be pursued as far as( 3 m.) the first turn on the right beyond the bridge over Naddle Beck, about 1 ½ miles short of Threlkeld.
Pedestrians will save a quarter of a mile by following the old road, which leaves the new one a mile from the centre of the town, and passes the field in which are the Druid Stones( p. 58).
This road passes near the Greta, and under the mountain masses of Skiddaw and Saddleback.
The old hall at Threlkeld has been long in a state of dilapidation, the only habitable part having been for years converted into a farmhouse. This was one of the places of residence of Sir Lancelot Threlkeld, a powerful knight in the reign of Henry Vii., and uncle to the" Shepherd" Lord Clifford, who was wont to say that" he had three noble houses: one for pleasure, Crosby in Westmorland, where he had a park full of deer; one for profit and warmth-- namely, Yanwith, nigh Penrith; and the third, Threlkeld, on the edge of the Vale of Keswick, well stocked with tenants to go with him to the wars." Those" three noble houses" are now the property of the Earl of Lonsdale, and are all occupied as farmhouses.
The road, about a mile after leaving the Penrith highway, crosses Wanthwaite Bridge into the Valley of St. John. A branch of the River Greta, called St. John's Beck, runs from Thirlmere through this valley, which is narrow, but extremely picturesque, being bounded on the right by Nathdale or Naddle Fell, and on the left by Clough Head, Calfhow Pike, and Great Dodd, hills forming the extremity of the Helvellyn chain. The most striking bit is the Wanthwaite Crags, which almost overhang the road. Naddle Church lies high up, but unseen, on the right, at the summit of the pass between St. John's Vale and Naddle. Notwithstanding its elevation, it is almost hidden from the sun during winter. The little churchyard is very pretty. There are fine retrospective views of Saddleback, and the peculiar conformation of the summit which gives its name to the mountain may be clearly perceived. The Windermere and Keswick high-road is entered either by a new road constructed by the Manchester Corporation, close by Smeathwaite Bridge( 4 ¾ m. from Keswick), or by the old narrow road which joins it ¼ mile farther on. The former route will be taken by those who wish to visit the dam at the end of Thirlmere, and return thence direct to Keswick or to take the west side of Thirlmere on the outward journey; the latter by such as take the outward journey on the east( main road) side.
The Dam or Embankment, completed in 1894, is a most substantial structure, 800 feet in length and 100 in height from the foundation. It is ¼ mile distant from the main road. Part of it is on a sharp curve. A handsome tablet records the laying of its first stone in 1890, and the opening of the road over it in 1894 is also recorded. The material of it is the native rock embedded in Portland cement, and faced with sandstone and millstone grit. The view from it up Thirlmere is very beautiful.
At the parting of the two roads, in the Valley of St. John, we pass close under the rock which has given celebrity to the valley. Its resemblance to a" fairy fortress" is certainly very striking. As is well known, it is the scene of Scott's" Bridal of Triermain," in which the rock appears to the charmed senses of King Arthur as a mighty turreted castle:--
" With toil the King his way pursued By lonely Threlkeld's waste and wood, Till on his course obliquely shone The narrow valley of St. John. 
Paled in by many a lofty hill, The narrow dale lay smooth and still, And, down its verdant bosom led, A winding brooklet found its bed, But midmost of the vale, a mound Arose with airy turrets crowned, Buttress, and rampire's circling bound, And mighty keep and tower; Seemed some primeval giant's hand The castle's massive walls had planned, A ponderous bulwark to withstand Ambitious Nimrod's power."
The" narrow brooklet" referred to in the above lines is St. John's Beck, by which the surplus waters of Thirlmere make their way into the Greta.
The route on, along the east side of Thirlmere, is described on p. 8. It passes( 5 ½ m. by direct road from Keswick) the" King's Head" at Thirlspot( p. 9), then climbs a short but steep pitch, from the top of which the lake comes into view; drops regularly to Wythburn( Nag's Head, 8 ¼ m., p. 8), and ¼ mile beyond the inn there strikes off square to the right, bending back so as to follow the west side of the lake all the way to the dam, affording exquisite views for the whole distance-- the finest, perhaps, being between Armboth House and the dam, from under Raven Crag. At the dam it" dulls off" and rejoins the main road( p. 9) 4 miles from Keswick.
 Keswick to Borrowdale and Buttermere, returning by Newlands, a round of 23 miles.
Public conveyances from all the hotels daily about 10 A.M. Fare, 5s. a head.
Perhaps an excursion exhibiting more beautiful prospects of rock, wood, and water than this does not exist in Britain; hardly in Europe. Leaving Keswick we pass close under Castle Head, Walla Crag, and Falcon Crag-- the first two wooded, the last bare-- in quick succession. A cleft in the face of Walla Crag is visible from the road. There is a tradition current in the country, that by means of this hollow the Countess of Derwentwater effected her escape when the Earl was arrested for high treason, carrying with her a quantity of jewels and other valuables. It is called the Lady's Rake. Barrow House stands two miles from Keswick, on the left of the road. Behind the house there is a fine cascade( partly artificial), 124 feet in height, which may be seen on application at the lodge.
The Watendlath road diverges from our present route a little short of Barrow House, behind and above which it passes. As it ascends it affords splendid retrospective views of Derwentwater and Skiddaw, particularly if we turn off to the right through the wood. From Keswick to Watendlath is 5 miles. The last part of the way is through a beautiful upland valley. There is a pony-track 2 miles in length, from Watendlath to Rosthwaite, and this affords, as it descends to Rosthwaite, the finest and most comprehensive of all the views of Borrowdale. As a walk from Keswick this route is unsurpassed. The total distances are, to Watendlath, 5 m.; Rosthwaite, 7; Keswick( returning by main road), 13 ½. Light refreshment may be had at the farm at Watendlath, and at Rosthwaite there are two tourist inns, the" Scawfell" and the" Royal Oak." A light carriage may be taken to Watendlath.
One mile beyond Barrow we reach that part of the lake
" Where Derwent rests and listens to the roar, That stuns the tremulous cliffs of high Lodore."
In this romantic situation is placed the large and comfortable hostelry called Lodore Hotel, in the grounds behind which is the celebrated waterfall, so characteristically described by Southey in his nursery rhyme, commencing--
" How does the water Come down at Lodore! My little boy asked me Thus, once on a time; And moreover he tasked me To tell him in rhyme
From its sources which well In the tarn on the fell; From its fountains In the mountains Its rills and its gills; Through moss and through brake, It runs and it creeps
Till in this rapid race On which it is bent, It reaches the place Of its steep descent.
The cataract strong Then plunges along, Striking and raging As if a war waging Its caverns and rocks among: Rising and leaping, Sinking and creeping, Swelling and sweeping, Showering and springing.
Eddying and whisking, Spouting and frisking, Turning and twisting, Around and around With endless rebound! Smiting and fighting, A sight to delight in; Confounding, astounding Dizzying and deafening the ear with its sound etc. etc.
And so never ending, but always descending, Sounds and motions for ever and ever are blending, All at once and all over, with a mighty uproar, And this way the water comes down at Lodore."Lodore is rather a succession of cataracts than a fall, and in dry weather is very apt to grievously disappoint the expectant visitor. It owes much of its fame to the precipitous but beautifully draped crags which rise to pinnacles on either side-- Gowder Crag on the left, and Shepherd's Crag on the right. A third of a mile farther, at a place called High Lodore( to distinguish it from Low Lodore, where the fall is,) is the
 Borrowdale Hotel, finely situated near the entrance to the dale, and half a mile from Grange Bridge, which spans the River Derwent with two arches. The village of Grange is close by on the other side. Half a mile from Grange, or one from Borrowdale Hotel, is the celebrated
 Bowder Stone, an immense block computed to weigh upwards of 1970 tons, measuring 60 feet in length by 30 in height, which has evidently rolled from the heights above, and now stands on a platform of ground a short distance to the left of the road. There is a branch road( not used by carriages) to the stone, which rejoins the Borrowdale road farther on. Visitors may get on the top of the stone( small fee) by means of a ladder which has been affixed to it for the purpose:--
" Upon a semicirque of turf-clad ground, A mass of rock, resembling, as it lay Right at the foot of that moist precipice, A stranded ship, with keel upturned, that rests Careless of winds and waves." 
 Wordsworth.
So narrow is this keel that two persons lying down on either side may join hands beneath it. There is a beautiful view of lower Borrowdale from the" semicirque."
Close to the Bowder Stone, but on the opposite side of the river, from the bank of which it suddenly rises, is an elevation clothed with wood called Castle Crag, so termed from a Roman fortification having, it is believed, once occupied the summit, but there are no existing traces. It is one of the finest features of Borrowdale.
 Borrowdale to Buttermere. -- A mile beyond the Bowder Stone is Rosthwaite, where there are two comfortable tourist inns, the" Scawfell" and the" Royal Oak." A short distance farther a road strikes off to Langdale, crossing the Stake Pass( 1570 ft., see p. 40) and dropping into the head of Langdale two miles above the old hotel. Distance from inn to inn, 8 m.
One mile and a half from Rosthwaite the road into Wasdale by Styhead Pass( see p. 71) continues up Borrowdale on the left, becoming in 1 ½ miles a path. Just beyond the deviation is Seatoller lodging-house.
At Seatoller the ascent of Borrowdale Hause is commenced. This hill is steep, especially at first, and the road rough; it is therefore a little dangerous for private carriages or with horses unaccustomed to such work. The summit, which is 1190 feet in height, commands noble prospects across the receding valley, the chief mountain feature being Glaramara, with Helvellyn to the left of it in the background. The hill on the right of the pass is named Dale Head. At a turn in the road at the top of the pass we suddenly come into full view of
 Honister Crag, presenting an almost perpendicular wall of rock, with loose scree at its base, rising on the left to the height of fifteen hundred feet. In the face of the rock, a considerable height above its base, large chambers have been cut and lines of rail laid, tier above tier, in which roofing-slates are excavated. The slates are shaped in the quarry, and brought down by men on wooden hurdles. These quarries belong to Lord Leconfield. So abrupt is the first part of the descent of the pass on the Buttermere side that it is hardly ever, if ever, attempted by carriages in the reverse direction. During the descent Buttermere and part of Crummock with the encircling hills come into view. At the bottom of the pass, two miles below Honister Crag, and four from Seatoller, is Gatesgarth farmhouse, near the head of Buttermere Lake, whence a mountain-track crosses by the pass of Scarf Gap into the head of Ennerdale, and reaches Wasdale Head by means of another pass, Black Sail( see p. 71). The residence of Hasness occupies a secluded situation on the left, near the margin of the lake. A series of mountain-summits towers over the opposite shore of the lake. The Hay Stacks, so termed from their form, are the most eastern; then follow High Crag, High Stile, and Red Pike. A stream, issuing from a small tarn which lies between the two first, makes a fine cascade, bearing the name of Sour Milk Ghyll. The public vehicles take the hotels in turn and allow about two hours for lunch and a visit to Scale Force.
 Buttermere 
 Tourist Inns. -- Victoria; Buttermere.
The village of Buttermere stands on sloping ground near the foot of the lake, 14 miles from Keswick,-- 9 by Newlands. It consists of a few scattered farmhouses, with three inns, forming, by reason of the surrounding hills, the very picture of seclusion.
 Buttermere Lake is 1 ¼ miles long, ⅜ mile wide, and in shape all but oblong. Its greatest depth is 94 feet. The barrier-mountains, by excluding the sun for much of his daily course, create a somewhat gloomy impression, and by their steepness suggest a still greater depth. The one relief is afforded by the woods and green pastures of Hasness. At the foot of the lake lie a few unornamented fields, through which rolls a little brook, connecting it with the larger lake of Crummock, which, though hardly so impressive a sheet of water as Buttermere, presents a decidedly more pleasing and graceful appearance. In fact as a whole it ranks very high in the Lake sisterhood. Its dimensions are 2 ¾ by ⅝ mile, and its greatest depth is 144 feet. In the village, by the roadside, is a small chapel, upon the site of a still smaller one.
After lunch at one of the hotels, it is usual to visit Scale Force, which may be reached by crossing the fields, and, by a bridge, the stream connecting the two lakes. The route, however, is apt to be very sloppy, and it is much better to make use of the boats, which, at a shilling a head, convey passengers across the lake( Crummock) and back to a point about half - a-mile from the foot of the fall.
 Scale Force is the highest of the Lake District Forces, being approximately 125 feet from top to bottom. It lacks the exquisite entourage of Dalegarth Force( Stanley Gill) and the mystery of Dungeon Gill, but in respect of height combined with sheerness is unequalled. It is very well seen from the bottom, and by making a little circuit the top is easily reached.
From Buttermere Village the" Angler's Inn" on Ennerdale Lake may be reached by a mountain path passing under Scale Force, between Red Pike and Melbreak, and near Floutern Tarn, in 6 miles. Its summit-level is about 1300 feet. The Angler's Inn is a comfortable little house.
Extending the excursion to Scale Hill, four miles from Buttermere, the road traverses the eastern shore of Crummock Water, passing under the cone of Whiteless Pike, and Grasmoor, a steep red bluff. Melbreak is a fine object on the other shore. From the foot of this mountain a narrow promontory juts into the lake, the extremity of which, when the waters are swollen, becomes insulated. A short distance before Scale Hill is reached there is a fine view into the sylvan valley of Lorton. At Scale Hill there is a comfortable hotel, very popular with anglers in the early part of the season. Lanthwaite Hill( 674 feet), close at hand, affords one of the most charming views-- simple, but finished-- in the district. Boats may be had upon Crummock Lake, from which the inn is about half - a-mile distant. Scale Force might be visited, if not seen previously. One boating excursion at least ought to be taken for the purpose of viewing the fine panorama of mountains which enclose the lake, and which can nowhere be seen to such advantage as from the bosom of the water. Green has particularised one station for obtaining a fine view, not only of Crummock Lake, but of Buttermere also. It is from a point two or three hundred yards above the promontory under Melbreak; Honister Crag is see closing the prospect on the south-east. There are three small islands at the head, but they are too near the shore to add much to the other beauties of the scenery. The small lake called Lowes Water may also be visited. It is scarcely a mile long, and the scenery at its head is tame, but the view down it from that point is grand. From Scale Hill it is 10 miles by the Whinlatter Pass( 1040 feet) to Keswick-- road very fair.
 Return Journey by Newlands Valley, 9 m. From the village the road commences at once the very steep ascent of Buttermere Hause, attaining in 1 ¼ miles a height of 1096 feet, 750 above Buttermere. The mountains on either side are green, and in late autumn resplendent with bracken, especially the Grasmoor range on the left. Then comes a long descent to the bottom of the green and fertile Newlands Valley, with Saddleback, the most prominent object in front. At 5 miles we pass the Newlands Hotel, a wooden structure. Then comes Stair, with an old woollen manufactory, whence it is all up and down little hills to Portinscale( 7 ¾ miles), 1 ⅓ miles short of Keswick.
 Wastwater 
 Hotel. -- Tyson's Wastwater Hotel( 1 mile from the lake), a favourite resort of climbers.
This wild lake may be visited from various quarters, but perhaps the most general accesses are by crossing the mountains by the Styhead Pass at the head of Borrowdale, or by the Scarf Gap and Black Sail Passes from Buttermere. Most tourists adopt the plan of going the one way and returning the other. This we shall describe. From the southern( Windermere) part of the district the access on foot is over Esk Hause, as described on p. 40. We have already described the approach from the foot of the lake in our Ambleside section( p. 45), and also the lake itself. From Keswick( a) by Styhead Pass the distance is 14 miles, and the route identical with that to Buttermere( p. 62) as far as the turn at Seatoller, 8 miles, ¾ mile beyond which the road passes a little to the left of the group of old yews, celebrated by Wordsworth as the" fraternal four of Borrowdale." A storm some years ago wrought great havoc with them. Then a big wheel indicates the spot where the plumbago mine used to be, and we come( 9 ½ miles) to the hamlet of Seathwaite, one of the wettest spots in Europe, where the road stops. Hence after a long mile of level but rough walking, we come to Stockley Bridge, where a sharp zigzag ascent begins, with Taylor Gill on the right. Styhead Tarn is passed, and, at an elevation of 1600 feet, amid as wild a scene as is included within the four seas, we commence the long and rough descent of the Styhead Pass, with Great Gable on the right, Great End across the valley, on the left, and Lingmell in front. Between the last two heights is Pier's Gill, a deep chasm that has tried the powers of our most experienced cragsmen. Scafell Pike has been visible most of the way from Seathwaite. The first house reached is the farm of Burnthwaite, and half - a-mile beyond that is the Wastwater Hotel.
 Wasdale Head to Buttermere by Scarf Gap and Black Sail, 9 m.( 19 to Keswick by Honister Pass without visiting Buttermere Village; 18 by Buttermere Village and Newlands);-- all very fine walks.
Leaving Wasdale Head the path ascends Mosedale-- a wild and grand valley. Black Sail( 2 ½ miles; 1800 feet) is the depression between the Pillar Mountain( not Rock) on the left and Kirkfell on the right. From it a rapid descent is made into Ennerdale, perhaps the loneliest of all Lakeland valleys. It contains only one house, Gillerthwaite Farm. The lake is seen at the end of the valley, and high up on the s. side of it the Pillar Rock, and excrescence of the Pillar Mountain, which is one of the climbing aspirations of the district, and, though simple enough for practised hands and heads, is responsible for several fatalities.
From the tiny bridge by which we cross the Liza at the bottom of the valley, between Black Sail and Scarf Gap, the distance to the Angler's Inn on Ennerdale Lake( p. 93) is a good 7 miles.
For Buttermere the track turns up again out of the valley in half a mile, and climbs steeply to Scarf Gap( 6 miles; 1400 feet), the depression between Hay Stacks and High Crag, whence is a rough and steep descent to the farm of Gatesgarth at the s. E. end of Buttermere( see p. 67). Hence to Buttermere village is 2 miles, to Rosthwaite over Honister Pass 5 ½ miles, and to Keswick 12 miles( 11 by Buttermere village and Newlands).
There is a pony track, 5 miles in length, from Wasdale Head to Boot in Eskdale( p. 44), passing Burnmoor Tarn; also one by Styhead and Esk Hause( 2390 feet) to Langdale, 8 miles, inn to inn.
 Keswick to Wasdale Head by Whinlatter Pass, Calder Abbey, etc. Keswick to Scale Hill Hotel, 10 m.; Lamplugh Cross Inn, 16 ½; Egremont, 25; Calder Bridge Hotel, 29; Strands Inn, 35 ½; Wasdale Head, 41 ½.
This is the only carriage-route from Keswick to Wasdale Head. It passes through real Lake scenery at each end, but the middle part, from a mile or two beyond Scale Hill to Strands, can hardly claim to be included in the district. Nearly 3 miles may be saved by taking a more direct and picturesque but hilly road from Lamplugh Cross, by Ennerdale Bridge, to Calder Abbey. The main road passes through part of the Cleator Moor iron-ore district. Good sleeping accommodation may be had at Scale Hill and Calder Bridge.
From Keswick the road is identical for the first 2 miles with that to Cockermouth( p. 74); then, keeping straight on, it passes( 2 ½ m.) through the village of Braithwaite, beyond which the ascent of Whinlatter Pass( 4 ½ m.; 1040 feet) commences. The pass lies between Grisedale Pike and the Whinlatter Fells. A little beyond the sixth milestone our road branches to the left and, affording beautiful views, drops into the Vale of Lorton, reaching( 10 miles) the Scale Hill Hotel( charming view over Crummock, etc., from Lanthwaite Hill, 674 feet, close by); see p. 69.
Hence, crossing the valley we skirt the shore of Lowes Water, a small lake with the peculiarity of displaying finer scenery at its foot than at its head. From it the road ascends to Lamplugh, where the comfortable little inn is a mile beyond the church and hall.
Hence to the Angler's Inn at Ennerdale( p. 93) is 5 miles, passing( 3 m.) Ennerdale Bridge, where is a road-side inn. This is also the road mentioned above as the shortest to Calder Bridge.
Between Lamplugh Cross and Calder Bridge, by Egremont, there is nothing of special note. For Egremont, see p. 5; Calder Bridge[ Stanley Arms and( smaller) Golden Fleece], p. 96. From the latter place we proceed to Gosforth, 2 ½ miles distant on the main road south. It is a large village with several inns. The churchyard contains a singularly graceful monolithic cross, 15 feet high, generally assigned to the 7th century. It represents various scenes in Norse mythology.
 Seascale, 2 ½ miles s. W. of Gosforth, is a watering-place that has grown into considerable popularity. It is a main station on the Furness line, 61 miles from Carnforth, 33 from Barrow, and 13 from Whitehaven. It has a large and good hotel( Tyson's), is very healthy, specially safe for children, and is within easy reach of Wastwater and the Scafell region. Public conveyances run on certain days of the week to Wasdale Head, Calder Abbey, etc., and the little railway from Ravenglass, 4 miles distant, to Boot in Eskdale( p. 44) is a great convenience. A golf-course of nine holes was instituted in 1893. Visitors may use it for a small payment by day or month.
From Gosforth to Strands( two small inns) the distance is a good 4 miles, and the road hilly. Just beyond the little village of Strands we enter the route from Ambleside to Wasdale Head, described on p. 43, and commence the finest part of the route.
 Keswick To Cockermouth 
The following are the railway stations between Penrith, Keswick, and Cockermouth:--
	 Miles Miles Penrith Keswick 18 Blencow 3 ½ Braithwaite 20 ½ Penruddock 7 ½ Bassenthwaite lake 25 ½ Troutbeck( change here for Ullswater) 9 ½ Embleton 27 ½ Threlkeld 14 ½ Cockermouth 30 ½	
This line is interesting throughout. Its chief beauties are, however, concentrated about Keswick, in approaching which town it crosses the Greta about half - a-dozen times. The distance from Troutbeck station to the Ullswater Hotel is 8 miles. There are one or two coaches a day running in connection with trains from Keswick. There is a small hotel at the station. Beyond Keswick the line skirts the west shore of Bassenthwaite, running between the lake and the road.
 Cockermouth 
 Hotel. -- The Globe.
Those desirous of visiting Cockermouth, the birthplace of the poet Wordsworth( who was born there on the 7th April 1770, and where his father's remains are laid), may conveniently do so from Keswick, from which it is only about half an hour's journey by rail( 12 ½ miles).
Cockermouth is an ancient borough and neat market-town( population 5464), seated at the junction of the Cocker with the Derwent. As early as the twenty - third year of Edward I. it sent two representatives to Parliament, but now the town gives its name to a division which returns one member. The honour and castle of Cockermouth belong to Lord Leconfield. The ruins of this ancient fortress, formerly a place of great strength, are seated on a bold eminence which rises from the east bank of the Cocker. It was built soon after the Norman Conquest by Waldieve, first lord of Allerdale, of whose successors it was for many years the baronial seat. In 1648 it was garrisoned for King Charles, but being taken afterwards by the Parliamentarians, was dismantled by them, and has ever since lain in ruins, except a small part at present occupied by Lord Leconfield. The Gateway Tower, embellished with the arms of the Umfravilles, Multons, Lucies, Percies, and Nevilles, is a striking object. On the north side of the town is a tumulus, called Toots Hill; one mile to the west are the remains of a rampart and ditch of an encampment, 750 feet in circuit, called Fitt's Wood. On the summit of a hill at Papcastle, a village 1 ½ miles south-west of Cockermouth, are the traces of a Roman castrum. Tickell the poet, Addison's friend, was born at Bridekirk, 2 miles distant.
From Cockermouth it is a very interesting drive or walk up the Lorton Valley, passing( 4 m.) Lorton village, to Scale Hill( 8 m.; p. 69) and Buttermere( 12 m.) The valley is flanked on the left by Kirkfell, Whiteside, and Grasmoor; on the right by Low Fell and Melbreak.
 Routes between Keswick, Penrith and Ullswater

The following is a note of the railway route:--
The chief route from Keswick to Ullswater is by train to Troutbeck Station( not to be confused with the Westmorland Troutbeck near Windermere), 8 ½ miles, and thence by coach to Ullswater Hotel, 8 miles, passing half - way the village of Dockray( small hotel), beyond which the road passes just above Aira Force( p. 80), and affords a splendid view of the uppermost reach of Ullswater in descending by the side of Gowbarrow Park to the shore of the lake, which it reaches 3 miles short of Patterdale. Then, skirting the lake, it passes the foot of Glencoin, and underneath the beautiful Stybarrow Crag. The hotel is at the foot of Glenridding. Coaches return to Troutbeck in connection with afternoon trains to Keswick.
Pedestrians may adopt other routes:--
( a) Round the north shoulder of the Helvellyn range, by Matterdale Common and Dockray, 14 miles. Uninteresting as far as Dockray.
( b) Over the Helvellyn range by the Sticks Pass, 5 miles along the Windermere road, and 6 over the mountain, descending by Glenridding to Patterdale.
( c) Over Hevellyn, 5 ¾ miles along the Windermere road to the King's Head at Thirlspot; thence as directed on p. 106.
 Hotels. -- The Ullswater, finely situate on the lake side; The Patterdale, at the entrance of the dale, about 300 yards from head of lake, more of a private character; White Lion, a small house in the village; Milcrest's Temperance( good private), at Glenridding.
 Distances. -- Ambleside, 10 miles; Bowness, 15 ½; Pooley Bridge, 8 by water or 9 by road; Windermere Station, 14; Keswick, 17 ½; Troutbeck railway station, 8.
 A Steamer sails four times daily from Easter to October up and down the lake, calling at Howtown, and in connection with coaches between Pooley Bridge and Penrith.
 Coaches every aft. to Ambleside, Windermere, Bowness, and Troutbeck( Cumberland) for Keswick.
 P.O.( in village) open 7-8, chief del. about 9:15 A.M.; desp. 3:15 P.M. No Sunday business. Tel. Off. open 8-8; Sun. 8-10. Postal Address:-- Patterdale, Penrith. There is a branch office at Glenridding.
 Church. -- Principal services 10.30, 6.30.
The Village of Patterdale is charmingly placed at the foot of the valley of that name, ½ mile from the head of the lake, and 1 mile from the steamer-pier and the Ullswater Hotel. The church and churchyard should be visited. The latter contains a yew-tree of remarkable size.
The estate of Patterdale originally belonged to a family of the name of Mounsey, and it is said that an ancestor of the Mounseys acquired the title of King of Patterdale from having successfully repulsed a body of Scotch moss-troopers at the foot of Stybarrow Crag, with the aid of a few villagers. His residence was at that time Patterdale Hall, but some years ago the patrimonial estate was sold to Mr. Marshall of Leeds.
A few days or more should certainly be spent at this place investigating the hidden beauties of the neighbourhood. There are innumerable nooks and shy recesses in the dells and by the lake--
" Where flowerets blow, and whispering Naiads dwell"--
which only the leisurely wanderer can admire. An afternoon may be advantageously employed in visiting the Islands, of which there are four: House Holm, standing at the mouth of the highest reach; Moss Holm, Middle Holm, and Cherry Holm. Islands are, however, by no means a strong point of Ullswater. Place Fell Quarry, half a mile from the hotel( a good station for viewing the lake), and the walk to Blowick, two farmhouses under Place Fell, afford many charming prospects. A ramble of 5 or 6 miles may be taken into the retired valley of Boardale; nor would the hardy pedestrian have much difficulty in making his way over the fells to Hawes Water. The summits of Helvellyn( p. 103) and High Street( p. 13) will both repay the necessary toil to be incurred by the extensive views they command.
 Hartley Coleridge.
 Ullswater is 7 ½ miles in length by ¾ mile in its greatest width. Its greatest depth is 205 feet-- less than that of Wastwater and Windermere. In average depth-- 83 feet-- it is 5 feet in excess of Windermere, the same number less than Crummock, while there is 52 feet difference between it and Wastwater. The lake is partitioned by the mountains into three reaches, not more than two of which can be seen at once from any point near the margin. Its extreme width is about ¾ of a mile. The first reach, commencing at the foot, is terminated on the left by Hallin Fell, which stretches forward to a promontory from the opposite side called Skelley Neb, on which stands Mr. Marshall's house, Halsteads. The middle and longest reach is closed in by Birk Fell on the left, and on the right by the parks of Gowbarrow and Glencoin, beyond which rises" the dark brow of the mighty Helvellyn." The little island called House Holm spots the water exactly at the termination of this section of the lake. The highest reach( towards Patterdale) is the smallest and narrowest, but the one in which are mingled the greatest grandeur and beauty. The islands by their diminutive size impress more deeply upon the beholder the height of the hills which tower above. Stybarrow Crag and other offshoots from Helvellyn on one side, Birk Fell and Place Fell on the other, springing from the lake almost at one bound, shut in this terrestrial paradise--
" Abrupt and sheer, the mountains sink At once upon the level brink."
This uppermost reach of Ullswater is, perhaps, the most impressive first - sight view in the Lake District. Unlike Windermere and Derwentwater, Ullswater recalls to the mind some of the Scottish Lakes, and is to some little extent Swiss in character.
The principal excursions from Patterdale are--
1. To Pooley Bridge, foot of lake, by steamer, 8 miles.
2. To Aira Force, 3 miles.
3. Top of Helvellyn. ( See p. 103.)
4. By Brotherswater and Kirkstone to Ambleside, 10 miles.
5. By Kirkstone and Troutbeck Valley to Windermere, 14, or Bowness, 15 ½ miles.
Distances are reckoned from Ullswater Hotel and Steamer Pier.
 Sail on the Lake. -- The sail on the lake affords a good view of the general features of the scenery-- Stybarrow Crag and Birk Fell, Gowbarrow Park and Hallin Fell, Halsteads, etc., on to Pooley Bridge. The steamer makes only one call on its way up and down the lake-- viz. at Howtown, a village on the south-east side, where there is an excellent little hotel, convenient for pedestrians who are crossing the fells to Hawes Water. At Pooley Bridge there is also an hotel( the Sun). The landing-place is at Waterfoot, a short distance from the village; at Patterdale it is at the Ullswater Hotel.
 Aira Force, 3 miles from the" Ullswater," is one of the great features of the district. It is situated within the grounds of Gowbarrow Park, about ½ mile from where the coach-road from Troutbeck station joins the lake. Orders for the fall are obtained at the private offices in Lyulph's Tower; it is most frequently visited by water, the landing-place being not more than ½ mile from the fall.
About half - way between the hotel and the fall the road passes under Stybarrow Crag, which before the widening of the road was a narrow path between the steep mountain and the water's edge-- a convenient station in olden times for the waylaying of travellers. Here Glencoin Beck, issuing from Linking Dale Head, runs under the road a mile from Aira Bridge, and forms the boundary-line between Cumberland and Westmorland. The middle reach of the lake is now unfolded to the view.
 Aira Force is formed by a mountain-stream which descends from the Great Dodd. The banks of the stream, which are thickly studded with trees, become exceedingly precipitous as the cascade is approached, and two wooden bridges are thrown across the stream, one above, the other below the fall. There is no great volume of water during the summer, but the general effect of the fall and the dell in which it is situated is very pleasing. As Wordsworth describes it," the brook dashes among rocks through a deep glen hung on every side with a rich and happy intermixture of native wood. Here," he adds," the lover of nature might linger for hours." The height of the fall is about 70 feet.
 Gowbarrow Park, which contains upwards of 1000 acres, must attract the attention of the most careless observer by its" grace of forest charms decayed," and innumerable sylvan groups of great beauty still remain, round which herds of fallow deer will be seen bounding. It belongs to Henry C. Howard, Esq., of Greystoke Castle, to whom it was devised by Charles, 11th Duke of Norfolk, his uncle. The Duke's predecessor erected upon an eminence a castellated hunting-box called Lyulph's Tower( now part of the offices,) which commands a splendid view of the lake:--
" List, ye who pass by Lyulph's Tower At eve; how softly then Doth Aira Force, that torrent hoarse, Speak from the woody glen! Fit music for a solemn vale! And holier seems the ground To him who catches on the gale The spirit of a mournful tale Embodied in the sound." 
 Wordsworth's
 Somnambulist.
At the foot of the lake is
 Pooley Bridge, 9 miles from Patterdale by road, 8 by water( Hotel: The Sun).
This village may be termed the portal of the Lake District as approached by Penrith. It contains nothing of special interest in itself.
On the west of the village is a steep and conical hill, clothed with wood, called Dunmallet, upon which there were formerly the vestiges of a Roman fortification. Winding walks lead to the summit, from which a fine view of the lake, which attracted the attention of Charles Dickens, is commanded. About ½ mile from Pooley, on the east side of the lake, is Eusemere, which for some time was the residence of Thomas Clarkson, the coadjutor of William Wilberforce in the slavery emancipation.
 Patterdale( Ullswater Hotel) to Ambleside( 10 m.), Windermere( 14), and Bowness( 15), by Kirkstone Pass. Described the reverse way on pp. 10 and 42. Coaches every afternoon.
This is a grand route, presenting within the last few miles of Windermere and Bowness one of the finest prospects in Europe.
About a mile from the Patterdale Hotel the road crosses Deepdale Beck, at the head of which Fairfield rises grandly, and in another mile the Goldrill Beck is crossed a few yards below its escape from Brotherswater. The scene is thus referred to--
" Within the mind strong fancies work, A deep delight the bosom thrills, Oft as I pass along the fork Of these fraternal hills.
Aspiring road that loves to hide Thy daring in a vapoury bourn: Not seldom may the hour return When thou shalt be my guide.
Who comes not hither never shall know, How beautiful the vale below: Nor can we guess how lightly leaps The brook adown the rocky steeps."
 Wordsworth.
The road now passes near the hamlet of Low Hartsop and skirts the eastern shore of Brothers' Water( Inn).
By following up the valley on the left to Hayeswater, and thence crossing the High Street range by Kidsty Pike( 2560 ft.), the tourist may reach the" Dun Bull"( good) at Mardale Green( Hawes Water) after a walk of 8 miles from Patterdale.
As it crosses the valley, there is a grand panorama of mountains to be seen. Near at hand is the extreme link in the Place Fell chain; part of the High Street range is seen at the head of the Hayes Water valley on the left; Low Hartsop Dodd, with sloping sides like the roof of a house, and Caudale Moor stand on the east of Kirkstone Pass, to the west of which are the Red Screes Middle Dodd. To the right of the last named lies the Caiston Glen, by which pedestrians may make their way almost in a direct line to Ambleside. The Dovedale Glen also, terminating in the precipitous Dove Crags, opens up on the right. Then, after a steep winding ascent of 2 ½ miles we come to the summit of the pass, noticing on the right the Kirkstone itself, and pulling up at the" Traveller's Rest" just beyond it. Hence Ambleside by the direct break-neck descent is only 3 miles distant, but the coaches nearly always go through Troutbeck village and round Wansfell, for the sake of the glorious views of Windermere.
Six miles from Pooley Bridge, 15 from Patterdale, is Penrith( Hotels: George; Crown; and Gloucester Arms," Dockray Hall"), an ancient market-town, seated at the foot of an eminence near the southern verge of the county of Cumberland. It contains 9000 inhabitants, and the appearance of the town is clean and neat. It lies in the neighbourhood of three rivers-- the Lowther, Eamont, and Petterill-- within the district called Inglewood Forest. The existence of Penrith may be traced back for many centuries. An army of 30,000 Scots laid it waste in the nineteenth year of Edward Iii., carrying away many of the inhabitants prisoners, and in the reign of Richard Iii. the town was again sacked.
The scanty ruins of the Castle, supposed to have been erected by the Nevilles, overlook the town from the west, and are close to the station. It was for some time the residence of the Duke of Gloucester, afterwards Richard Iii., and continued in the possession of the Crown till the Revolution, when it was granted, together with the honour of Penrith, to Walter Bentick, Earl of Portland. In the contest between Charles I. and the Long Parliament, this Castle was seized and dismantled by the adherents of the Commonwealth, and the lead, timber, and other materials were sold. In 1783 the then Duke of Portland sold it, together with the honour of Penrith, including Inglewood Forest, to the Duke of Devonshire. Among the ruins a subterranean passage was said to lead to the Dockray Hall Inn( Gloucester Arms), about 300 yards distant. This inn was a temporary residence of the hump-backed monarch. The oak wainscoting in some of the rooms is very interesting.
The Church is a plain structure; it was partly rebuilt in 1772, and is dedicated to St. Andrew. It was given by Henry I. to the Bishop of Carlisle, who is still the patron of the cure.
On one of the walls is the following record of the ravages of a pestilence toward the end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth:--" A.D. M. D. Xcviii. ex gravi peste, quae regionibus hisce incubuit, obierunt apud Penrith 2260, Kendal 2500, Richmond 2200, Carlisle 1196.
" Posteri, Avertite vos et vivite."
This memorial in brass has been substituted in the place of a more ancient inscription engraven on stone. It appears from an ancient register kept in the parish that this dreadful pestilence raged here from September 22, 1597, to January 5, 1599, a period of fifteen months!
In the churchyard is a singular monument of antiquity called the Giant's Grave, the origin of which is involved in obscurity. It consists of two stone pillars, standing at the opposite ends of a grave, 15 feet asunder, and tapering from a circumference of 11 feet 6 inches at the base to 7 feet at the top. Between these are four other stones: the whole are covered with runic or other unintelligible carvings. Near them is another stone called the Giant's Thumb. These remains are said to have once formed a monument erected to the memory of Owen Caesarius, a giant.
On the heights to the north of Penrith is a square stone building, called the Beacon, well placed for giving alarm in the time of danger. From this elevation the views are at once extensive and delightfully picturesque: Helvellyn, Ullswater, and Saddleback, with the mountains beyond Keswick; Crossfell( 2928 feet high), and the eastern chain of hills stretching from Stainmore in Yorkshire, northwards through Cumberland into Scotland, being within the boundary of the prospect.
The antiquities in the neighbourhood of Penrith are numerous.
The remains of Broughham Castle, which are supposed to occupy the site of the Roman station Brovoniacum occupy a striking situation near the junction of the rivers Eamont and Lowther, 1 ¾ mile from Penrith, a little to the right of the Appleby road. The vallum of an encampment is still to be traced, and altars, coins, and other antiquities have often been found at the place.
A short distance beyond Brougham Castle stands the Countess's Pillar, erected in 1656 by Lady Anne Clifford.
Two miles below Brougham Castle, on the precipitous banks of the Eamont, are two excavations in the rock, called Giant's Caves, or Isis Parlis. One is very large, and contains marks of having been inhabited. There are traces of a door and window; and a strong column has marks of iron grating upon it. The approach to these singular remains is difficult. They are said to have been the abode of a giant called Isis.
A short distance on the Westmorland side of Eamont Bridge, in a field on the right of the road, about 1 ½ miles from Penrith, is another curious relic of antiquity, King Arthur's Round Table, a circular area, about 20 yards in diameter, surrounded by a fosse and mound, with two approaches opposite each other conducting to the area. As the fosse is on the inner side, it could not be intended for the purpose of defence, and it has reasonably been conjectured that the enclosure was designed for the exercise of the feats of chivalry, and the embankment around for the convenience of the spectators. Higher up the River Eamont is Mayborough, an area of nearly 100 yards in diameter, surrounded by a mound, composed of pebble stones elevated several feet. In the centre of the area is a large block of unhewn stone 11 feet high, supposed to have been a place of Druidical judicature. Six miles N.E. of Penrith, on the summit of an eminence near little Salkeld, are the finest relics of antiquity in this vicinity, called Long Meg and her Daughters. They consist of a circle, 350 yards in circumference, formed of sixty - eight stones, some of them 10 feet high. Seventeen paces from the southern side of the circle stands Long Meg, a square unhewn column of red freestone, 15 feet in circumference, and 12 feet high.
In a note to his sonnet on this monument the poet Wordsworth observes:" When I first saw this monument, as I came upon it by surprise, I might overrate its importance as an object; but though it will not bear a comparison with Stonehenge, I must say I have not seen any other relique of those dark ages which can pretend to rival it in singularity and dignity of appearance.
At old Penrith, 5 miles north-west of Penrith, are the remains of the Romish station Brementenracum. A military road, 21 feet broad, led from it to the Roman wall.
 Brougham Hall, an old and picturesque building, will be visited with interest, as the patrimonial inheritance and favourite residence of the late venerable Lord Brougham( d. 1868). It stands upon an eminence commanding extensive views of the surrounding country, the mountains beyond Ullswater closing the prospect. The pleasure-grounds and shrubberies are of considerable extent, and tastefully laid out. In one part there is the Hermit's Cell, with an inscription on the table.
 Greystoke Castle, the baronial seat of Henry C. Howard, Esq., is supposed to have been built soon after the year 1353. During the war between Charles I. and his Parliament it was garrisoned for the King, and in June 1648 was taken by a detachment of General Lambert's army and burned down. The Castle was almost entirely rebuilt about the middle of the last century by the Hon. Charles Howard, but, by an apparent fatality, it was all but burned down again in May 1868. The Castle was noted for its valuable collections of paintings, books, and armour.
 Eden Hall, the seat of the famous Border clan of the Musgraves, is a large and handsome edifice on the west bank of the River Eden, which, being bordered with trees, forms and elegant feature in the pleasure-grounds. In the hall there is preserved with scrupulous care an old and anciently-painted glass goblet called the Luck of Edenhall, which would appear, from the following traditionary legend, to be wedded to the fortunes of its present possessors. The butler, in going to procure water at a well in the neighbourhood( rather an unusual employment for a butler), came suddenly upon a company of fairies, who where feasting and making merry on the greensward. In their flight they left behind this glass, and one of them returning for it, found it in the hands of the butler. Seeing that its recovery was hopeless, she flew away, singing aloud--
" If that glass should break or fall, Farewell the luck of Eden Hall."
The Musgraves came to England with the Conqueror, and settled first at Musgrave in Westmorland, then at Hartley Castle in the same county, and finally at their present residence.
The solitary and little visited lake of Hawes Water lies embosomed in lofty mountains, about 13 miles to the south of Penrith. It is the property of the Earl of Lonsdale. The most interesting route for carriages is through Lowther Park and Askham, and thence by Helton and Bampton to Mardale Green at the head of the lake-- distance 18 miles. A shorter road by about 2 miles quits the Pooley Bridge road at Yanwath; after leaving that village it crosses what was formerly Tirrel and Yanwath Moor to Askham, 5 miles from Penrith. About ½ mile to the E. of Askham is Lowther Castle, the seat of the Earl of Lonsdale, seated in a noble park, of 600 acres, on the east side of the woody vale of Lowther. It was erected by the late earl upon the site of the old hall( which had been nearly destroyed by fire), as far back as the year 1726, after the designs of the architect Smirke. The white stone of which it is built is in pleasing contrast with the vivid green of the park and woods. Helton is rather more than a mile beyond the hall, and Bampton is nearly 3 miles farther( 9 from Penrith). The grammar school at this village was once in great repute. It has a good inn-- the Crown and Mitre.
 Shap( Inns:-- Greyhound, close to station; King's Arms, ⅓ m. away) is a straggling village of one straight street a mile long, with a few off-shoots, on the main north road between Kendal and Penrith, 16 miles from the former by way of the dreary Shap Fells, and 10 from the latter. Its lofty situation, about 700 feet above sea-level, renders it very salubrious, and it is the best starting-point for pedestrians bound Hawes Water way, the driving distance to the" Dun Bull" at the head of that lake, by Bampton( 5 m., p. 88), being 12 miles, whereas the walking distance by a somewhat intricate route need not be more than 7.
 Shap Wells Spa( not to be confounded, as regards locality, with Shap Abbey) is situated 3 ½ miles to the south of Shap station. There is a large hotel here( Shap Wells Hotel), having the advantage of the mineral waters and baths, and surrounded by well laid-out grounds( including bowling-green and croquet-ground). An omnibus meets certain trains coming from the north and south. The spa is a medicinal spring, in smell and taste like that of Harrogate, but with some of the quality of that of Leamington. The region is one of dark moors and shapeless mountains, but the air is salubrious and bracing.
 Shap Abbey. -- The ruins of the Abbey are nearly 2 miles through the village from Shap station, and 4 from Bampton, and are thus readily accessible to tourists. They are situated on the banks of the Lowther, which, though now bare, were once occupied by a thick forest. Under the ancient name of Heppe, it was founded by Thomas, the son of Gospatrick, for monks of the Premonstratensian order, about the year 1150, and dedicated to St. Magdalen. Upon the Dissolution the abbey and manor were granted to Thomas, Lord Wharton, from whose descendant they were purchased by the Duke of Wharton, an ancestor of the Earl of Lonsdale. The only part left standing is the church-tower. From the vestiges of buildings yet visible, the abbey appears to have been extensive. In the vicinity of Shap are two of those rude structures to which no certain date can be assigned, and which are therefore usually referred to the primitive times of the Druids. Karl Lofts, the name of one, consists of two parallel lines of unhewn masses of granite, ½ mile long by 60 or 70 feet broad, terminating at the south extremity in a small circle of similar blocks. Many of the granitic blocks have been barbarously carried off for building purposes, or some other" base use." At a place called Gunnerskeld Bottom there is a circle of large stones, thought to be a sepulchral cairn.
 Hawes Water. -- From Bampton, the foot of Hawes Water is reached, in 1 ½ miles. The wild wood of Naddle Forest beautifully feathers the steeps of the east shore. Rather more than a mile from the foot of the lake the Measand Beck is crossed near a farmhouse of the same name. The beck makes some pretty falls on the mountain-side. A broad promontory enters the lake at this place, and approaches within 200 or 300 yards of the other margin. The mountains surrounding the head of this lake present a striking outline. They consist of Branstree, Harter Feel, and the eastern spur of High Street. The little chapel of Mardale stands close to the road, about a mile above the lake, and over against it is a neat white house, called Chapel Hill, the residence of the late Mr. H. P. Holme. The ancestor of this family came originally from Stockholm, and landed in England in the train of the Conqueror. He was rewarded with an estate in Northamptonshire, where the family were seated until the reign of King John, at which period its head, flying from his enemies, concealed himself in a cavity( to this day called Hugh's cave) in one of the hill-sides. The estate on which the last male resided was purchased by the fugitive. Having wound round a rocky screen, a few houses, called collectively Mardale Green( the highest of which is the" Dun Bull Hotel," good), are seen thinly sown over the floor of the narrow valley. Harter Fell closes in this level area on the south; lofty mountains rise on the east and west, and contribute to make this as perfect a solitude as can well be conceived. The pedestrian will find a road over the pass of Gatescarth, which reaches Kendal by the vale of Longsleddale, in 16 miles from Mardale Green. From Mardale the rambler may ascend High Street( p. 13), or cross the Martindale Fells to Patterdale, at the head of Ullswater( 8 m.); or he might go by Nanbield and High Street to Troutbeck( Westmorland), 6 miles, or across Nanbield into Kentmere( 6 m.), and thence either to Staveley station( 10) or over Garburn Pass( 1450 ft.) to Windermere village( 12 m.)
 Hotels-- Grand, close to station; etc., etc.
28 ½ m. from Keswick, 47 ½ from Ulverston( 55 by Barrow). Excursions to Ennerdale( 9).
Whitehaven is a market-town and seaport seated at the upper end of a small creek on the west coast, in the county of Cumberland, near the fine cliffs called Scilly Bank, in the parish of St. Bees, and contains( 1891) 18,044 inhabitants. The town has advanced rapidly from insignificance to its present state of prosperity, for in the year 1566 six fishermen's huts were all that bore the name of Whitehaven-- a progress attributable in a great measure to the munificence of the Lowther family, who, having large estates around the town, and valuable possessions in coal underneath it, have liberally come forward on all occasions to promote its prosperity.
The chief manufactures are coarse linens, and articles connected with the fitting up of vessels; shipbuilding is also carried on. The port is the second in the county, there being upwards of 200 vessels belonging to it trading with the seaports of Great Britain, and with America, the West Indies, and the Baltic, as well as almost an equal number engaged in the coal trade; large quantities of iron and lead ore, grain, and lime are exported. The harbour is spacious and commodious, having seven piers extending into the sea in different directions, and affording ample security for vessels lying within. At the entrance of the harbour there are two lighthouses, and a third is situated on the promontory of St. Bees Head, 3 miles to the south-west.
Except as a convenient starting-point for a drive to the western lakes of Ennerdale and Wastwater, it cannot be said that Whitehaven has anything to do with the Lake District.
The road from Whitehaven to Ennerdale traverses the busy mining district of Cleator Moor, and joins the road from St. Bees and Egremont at Wath( 5 m.), whence it proceeds to Ennerdale Bridge( 8 m.), and ends at the" Angler's Inn" on the north shore of Ennerdale Lake.
 Inn. -- The Angler's Inn.
10 miles from Whitehaven. Also reached from Wasdale Head or Gatesgarth, Buttermere, by passes of Black Sail or Scarf Gap; or from Buttermere or Scale Hill by Floutern Tarn( see pp. 67, 69, 71).
This lake is less visited than most of the others, in consequence of its difficulty of access and the want of houses of entertainment in the valley. Moreover, it is deficient in some of those attractions which throw such an irresistible charm around more favoured meres. There is a want of wood to relieve the wild barrenness of its shores, and the hills immediately surrounding it do not present very striking outlines. At the same time the view up the wild valley at the head of the lake, with the precipices of the Pillar on one side, High Stile on the other, and the splendid crest of Great Gable in the background, forms one of the most effective mountain landscapes in the district. The length of the lake is not more than 3 miles, and its extreme width is somewhere about a mile. The stream which enters the lake at its head is called the Liza, but the river issuing from the other end takes the name of Ehen. This stream, Ehen, is crossed for the first time by those approaching the lake 5 miles from Whitehaven, and a second time 3 miles farther up, at the village of Ennerdale Bridge, at which is the chapel and chapel-yard, the scene of Wordsworth's poem of" The Brothers":--
" Is neither epitaph nor monument, Tombstone or name; only the turf we tread, And a few natural graves."
The foot of the lake is 1 mile beyond.
The" Angler's Inn," or Boathouse, on the margin of the lake, affords comfortable accommodation. It is situated about 2 miles from Ennerdale Bridge, and 4 from Gillerthwaite. The best way to enjoy the scenery is to take a boat from the inn. One mile from the lower extremity of the lake, and near its centre, a few stones rise from the water. The rock which stretches into the lake near this islet is Angling Crag; a little below which there is a superb view of the mountains surrounding the upper part of the vale. Revelin is behind Angling Crag, and Crag Fell is below-- its summit wearing the appearance of a fortification from the surface of the water. On the north shore Herdhouse is the highest hill; a fine combe separates it from Bowness Crag. The distant summit of Grasmoor is visible from the lake.
 From Angler's Inn the tourist may cross the fells on the north, passing Floutern Tarn( p. 69) on the way. He must not pursue the stream issuing from it, but descend between Melbreak on the left and Blea Crag on the right into Buttermere dale; this path is about 6 miles long. By following the stream from Floutern Tarn he will be conducted to the foot of Lowes Water, whence he may proceed to Scale Hill. There is a cart-road on the north-east bank of the stream. On leaving Ennerdale the best course is some way to the left of the banks of a stream which comes down under Herdhouse to the hamlet of Bowness
The first two miles of Ennerdale Water is the most picturesque part, and therefore carriages need not proceed farther along the road than this distance, for there is no outlet for them at the upper end of the valley. Strangers will not regret taking the trouble to climb the hill-side for a short distance behind the scattered hamlet of Bowness, as they will be rewarded by a splendid view. The pedestrian or horseman will do well to traverse the whole length of the vale, as the mountains round its upper end are thrown into magnificent groups. Long before reaching the head of the lake the scenery becomes wild and desolate. A mile and a half farther on is the farmhouse of Gillerthwaite, the last habitation in the vale. Here the road for vehicles ends, but a shepherd's path passes along the banks of the Liza, and 4 miles beyond Gillerthwaite the extremity of Ennerdale is reached. Great Gable( 2949 feet) is a fine object at the head; and the Pillar( 2927 feet) has a striking appearance on the right. On the summit of Great Gable there is a small hollow in the rock( with few exceptions) never entirely empty of water,--" having," says Wordsworth," no other feeder than the dews of heaven, the showers, the vapours, the hoar frost, and the spotless snow." The peculiar shape of the Pillar Rock, an excrescence of the Pillar Mountain, will not fail to strike the eye for some distance:--
" You see yon precipice;-- it wears the shape Of a vast building made of many crags; And in the midst is one particular rock, That rises like a column from the vale, Whence by our shepherds it is called the Pillar."
 From Wordsworth's pastoral poem," The Brothers," the scene of which is in Ennerdale chapel-yard.
A guide-post not far from the termination of the valley will be noticed. Near this point a path strikes up the hill on the left, called Scarf Gap, and reaches Gatesgarth at the head of Buttermere in about 2 ½ miles. From another guide-post half - a-mile higher up, a path passes over Black Sail on the right, and winding round the Pillar Mountain into Mosedale, having Yewbarrow on the right, reaches Wasdale Head, 3 miles from the guide-post.
 Egremont( Hotel: The Globe). -- Egremont( pop. 6243) is a dull town, seated at the distance of 2 ½ miles from the coast, upon the banks of the Ehen, the stream which flows from Ennerdale Lake. It is stated to have been a borough at the period when Parliamentary representatives were remunerated for their services; and that, to avoid the expense of a member, the burgesses petitioned to have the burgh disfranchised, which was accordingly done. The parish church is an ancient edifice dedicated to St. Mary. It was granted by William de Meschines to the cell of St. Bees. Upon an eminence to the west of the town stand the ruins of Egremont Castle, formerly a place of great strength and importance. It was built by the above-named William De Meschines soon after the Norman Conquest. In the lapse of time it passed into the possession of the Lucy family. There is a tradition respecting the fortress whilst belonging to the Lucies, which Wordsworth has versified in some stanzas entitled" The Horn of Egremont Castle." Lord Leconfield is the present owner of both the manor and castle of Egremont. Large quantities of iron-ore are excavated in the neighbourhood, which are conveyed to Whitehaven unsmelted, and thence shipped.
 St. Bees( Seacote Hotel), at which there are a fine conventional church and a well-known North Country school, is 2 ½ miles distant. A fair road, of 8 miles in length, leads to the foot of Ennerdale Lake.
 Calder Abbey( Hotel at Calder Bridge:" Stanley Arms," 4 miles from Egremont, 7 from Strands, Nether Wasdale.)-- The picturesque remains of Calder Abbey are situated 1 mile above the village of Calder Bridge, on the north bank of the River Calder. They consist of the square tower of the church, which is supported by pointed arches, sustained on four finely-clustered columns, about 24 feet in height, and of excellent workmanship. The roof of the church rested on semicircular arches, with clustered pillars, and a fascia, which is yet to be traced above the remaining arches. The width of the choir appears to have been only 25 feet. The ruins are overrun with ivy, and are delightfully embowered in stately sycamores and other trees. Ranulph de Meschines founded this monastery in 1134, for a colony of Cistercians who were detached from Furness Abbey. It subsequently received many valuable grants. At the Dissolution it shared the common fate of the Roman ecclesiastical establishments. Its yearly revenue at that time amounted, according to Speed, to £ 64: 3: 9. Close at hand is Ponsonby Hall, in a beautiful park.
The line of railway between Ulverston, Broughton, and Coniston affords the readiest means of visiting the far-famed ruins of Furness. The ride by railway from Coniston to the abbey occupies about 1 ¼ hours; that from Ulverston about 20 minutes. Tourists from the south may advantageously enter the Lake District in this way, and return by the Windermere line. The most unusual way of visiting the Abbey, however, is by taking it on the circular tour, starting from any place on Windermere or Coniston( see p. 27).
 Ulverston( Hotels: County, Sun; Conishead Priory Hydro., 2 m. south), a market-town and port, contains 9948 inhabitants, and is situated on the main Furness line( 18 m. from Carnforth, 8 ½ from Windermere, Lake side). It is about a mile from the estuary of the Leven, with which it is connected by a canal, by means of which large quantities of slate and iron-ore, with which the neighbourhood abounds, are exported. The appearance of the town is neat, the greater part of the houses being of modern erection. The parish church, dedicated to St. Mary, has received considerable additions; and a tower and Norman doorway of the old structure still remain. It contains an altar-piece after Sir Joshua Reynolds, and a window of stained glass, representing compositions after Rubens, both of which were given by T. R. G. Braddyll, Esq., the late lay rector, besides several memorial windows. From the monument on Hoad Hill( which is a short distance from the old church, and is easily ascended) there is a splendid prospect, which embraces the town below, Morecambe Bay and its inlets, and the neighbouring country to a considerable distance, including a fine view of the mountains of the Lake District, and of part of the Yorkshire mountains, from Scafell all round to Ingleborough, etc. Holker Castle, the town of Lancaster, Peel Island and Castle, the lofty chimneys of the Barrow smelting-works, and numerous other interesting localities, may also be seen. The tower( 100 feet high) on" The Hoad" resembles in appearance a lighthouse; it was raised in 1850 to the honour of Sir John Barrow, who was born in the vicinity.
In the vicinity of Ulverston is Holker Hall, a seat of the Duke of Devonshire; and about 2 miles distant, on Morecambe Bay, is Conishead Priory Hydro. , formerly the seat of H. s. Askew, Esq. This ecclesiastical-looking mansion is fitted up with all the appliances of a first - class sanatorium, and is surrounded with extensive grounds laid out in shrubberies, gardens, and lawns for the use of the inmates.
 Furness Abbey( Hotel: Furness Abbey Hotel, adjoining the railway station and Abbey grounds, first - class.)-- As this grand old ruin is usually visited in conjunction with Coniston, there being direct railway communication between the two places, we describe it in this section. The distance from Coniston is 24 miles, viâ Barrow( 19 by direct line, little used for passenger traffic). Visitors either return to Coniston, or they may make a circular tour of 54 miles, comprising all the stations on Windermere Lake, Furness Abbey and Coniston; Fares from 5s. 6d. to 8s. 9d. The ruins of this decayed but still beautiful fabric amply attest its former magnificence. The length of the church is 287 feet, the nave is 70 feet broad, and the walls in some places 54 feet high, and 5 feet thick. The walls of the church, and those of the chapter-house, the refectorium, and the Abbot's Chapel, are still in great part remaining, and exhibit fine specimens of Gothic architecture; the chapter-house, 60 feet by 45, has been a sumptuous apartment; the roof, of fretwork, was supported by six channeled pillars, and the windows are yet remarkable for their rich border tracery. This is one of the finest examples of E. E. architecture extant. The great east window, the four seats near it( adorned with canopies and other ornaments), the piscina, and four nameless statues found in the ruins, are particularly worthy of notice. No mullions remains in the windows, and of the large arches the only perfect ones are the eastern arch under the central tower, and one at the north end of the transept. The doorway into the north transept, and five doorways out of the cloister court, have round arches indicating an earlier date than the rest of the structure. There are splendid examples of the period of transition from Norman to Early English, whilst that part of the building once termed a school-house, but probably the Abbot's Chapel, is characterised by arches with obtusely-angular heads, such as no other portion of the abbey exhibits. Of a still later period is the Belfry Tower at the west end of the nave. This is Perpendicular in style, and out of harmony with the rest of the building. Further discoveries were made at the Abbey in 1899, among them being a remnant of the foundations of the earlier church, which was found near the crossing of the north transept.
The spot selected for this Abbey was admirably fitted for the retirement of monastic life. The dell is narrow, the situation one of extreme sequestration, and the inmates of the sacred edifice might thus consider themselves shut out by a double wall from the turmoils and distractions of the world. There was no Furness Railway then.
The mountains of the Lake District best known and most unusually ascended are-- Scafell Pike, Helvellyn, Skiddaw, Coniston Old Man, and the Langdale Pikes. Guides and ponies can be procured at any of the hotels; charges vary from 5s. to 8s. for ponies, according to the distance, and the same amount is payable for the guides. Fine clear days should be selected for an expedition of this kind, as well for the advantage of having an extensive prospect as for safety. Mists and wreaths of vapour capping the summits of mountains, or creeping along their sides, are beautiful objects when viewed from the lowly valley, and it must be admitted that there is nothing finer in nature than the clearing of a mist, as witnessed from a mountain-top, when it clears; but when the wanderer becomes surrounded with them on the hills they occasion anything but agreeable sensations, and have not unfrequently led to serious accidents. A pocket compass will of course be found useful, as will a field-glass; should it not clear, even with an accurate knowledge of the particular mountain you are on, you may wander for hours and ultimately find that you have been working many miles in a circle or a long distance from where you expected to find yourself. A flask of spirits is also, in the event of unlooked-for delay, a most desirable accompaniment.
The description of the mountains is in alphabetical order as follows:--
Coniston Old Man.
Helvellyn.
Langdale Pikes.
Scafell Pike.
Skiddaw.
 Coniston Old Man stands at the north-west angle of Coniston Lake, from the eastern shore of which it presents a magnificent appearance. It is 2633 feet in height, forming the highest peak of the range called Coniston Fells, and is composed of a fine roofing slate, for the excavation of which there are several large quarries. There are also some valuable copper-mines upon the mountain, and they are the largest works of the kind in the Lake District. Three tarns diversify the surface of the mountain, called Levers Water, Low Water, and Goats Water. The first lies between Old Man and Wetherlam, the northern bulwark of the same range; and the last is placed at the foot of Dow Crag. Low Water, nothwithstanding its name, is the highest.
The shortest way up the Old Man is by a track that leaves the principal street in the village close to the Sun Inn and, with the stream on the right, ascends to a bridge over it. Hence, crossing a field or two, you enter a slate-track that leads to several quarries, the highest of which is within ten minutes' walk of the top. An easier way is to follow the Walna Scar route( p. 28) till it crosses the southern shoulder of the mountain: thence climb by the ridge. There is a fine open view to the south, embracing the estuaries of the Kent, Leven, and Duddon, a long line of coast, and, in clear weather, westward, the Isle of Man. Snowdon may be distinguished on a very clear day, a little to the left of the Black Combe, which is the most southerly height of the Cumbrian range. The eye will, however, be attracted by Coniston Lake, the whole length of which is immediately below the spectator. Parts of Windermere can be seen more to the east. On other sides the Old Man is surrounded by high mountains, which wear an aspect of imposing grandeur from this elevation. Scafell and Bowfell are particularly fine, and the apex of Skiddaw can be discerned in the distance. Hevellyn is also well seen.
 Helvellyn 
This mountain is more widely known by name than any other, partly from its easiness of access and its proximity to the main thoroughfare of the district, over which coaches pass daily within two miles and a half of the summit, and partly in connection with a melancholy accident which in 1805 befell a stranger upon it, whose fate the elegiac verses of Wordsworth and Scott have contributed to make universally remembered. It stands, the highest of a long chain of hills, at the angles formed by the vales of Grasmere, St. John, and the Ullswater glens, rather nearer Keswick than Ambleside. From its central position and its great altitude it commands an extensive map-like view of the whole Lake District, no fewer than six lakes being visible from its summit; whilst the surrounding mountains present themselves in fine arrangement. Its height is 3118 feet above the level of the sea, being something less than hundred feet lower than Scafell Pikes, and higher than Skiddaw by about sixty - feet. Its geological structure is slate in one part, and in another a flinty porphyry.
 The Ascent. -- The ascent can be effected from several quarters. Grasmere, Wythburn, Patterdale, and the King's Head at Thirlspot severally afford advantageous starting-points. It may be well, perhaps, to mention that ponies can be used for the whole distance from any of these starting-places.
 From Wythburn. -- The ascent from Wythburn, though the shortest, is the steepest. A guide can be procured at the" Nag's Head," which stands near the chapel, but the path is easily discovered without his assistance, the only fear of losing it being about half - way up, just beyond the top of the steep crag that is conspicuous from the inn. In this part you will easily lose your way in a mist. The path begins to ascend almost opposite the inn-door. A spring, called Brownrigg's Well, issuing from the ground within 300 yards of the summit, sends out a stream, which, after rushing violently down the mountain-side, crosses the highway 200 or 300 yards from the inn. The pony-track passes near a crag considerably to the south of this stream, and on reaching the plateau above becomes very indistinct for some distance, but is again well marked before the top is reached. In the ascent a small sheet of water, called Harrop Tarn, will be seen under Tarn Crag, a lofty precipice on the opposite side of the receding valley. The scars, seams, and ravines--
" The history of forgotten storms, On the blank folds inscribed of drear Helvellyn"--
which indent the mountain on its eastern side will impress upon every beholder the possible vastness of the effects of those elements whose ordinary results are so trivial. A striking example occurred on the great waterspout of 2nd November 1898, the effects of which are still noticeable near the Straining Wells of the Manchester Waterworks.
 Hartley Coleridge.
 From Patterdale. -- From Patterdale the glens of Grisedale and Glenridding may be either of them used as approaches to Helvellyn. By the latter glen ponies may be taken the whole way, but from Grisedale they can only go as far as the Red Tarn, a lonely sheet of water 2400 feet above sea-level and 600 below the summit of the mountain. It is fenced in on the south-east by a ridge of rocks called Striding Edge, and on the north-west by a similar barrier called Swirrel Edge. The conical hill which terminates the latter ridge is Catchedicam, between which and the main precipice of the mountain the foot-track winds up from the Tarn, taking the top of the ridge before it reaches the summit. Although the path along this ridge may be somewhat startling, there is no real danger to be apprehended. Sometimes, from mistake or otherwise, Striding Edge is taken; and this, too, may be safely done with ordinary care and in trustworthy weather, the hardest bit being the steep grass slope at the finish. This is unquestionably the finest route up. At the top is a stone with a tablet lately erected in memory of Charles Gough, the gentleman already spoken of as having lost his life on the mountain. As to the exact spot there is some difference of opinion, but in any case the cause was exposure and not the dangerous character of the spot. His dog was discovered watching by his side. The Edge being passed, little exertion is required to place the pedestrian by the side of Helvellyn Man-- as the pile of stones on the summit is called-- thence to gaze on the wonderful display of mountains and lakes which everywhere surround him. This Man, and that on a lower elevation to the north, form the separating landmarks between Cumberland and Westmorland.
 This unfortunate" young lover of nature" attempted to cross Helvellyn from Patterdale one day in the spring of 1805, after a fall of snow had partially concealed the path, and rendered it dangerous. It could never be ascertained whether he was killed by his fall, or had perished from hunger. Three months elapsed before the body was found, attended by a faithful dog, which he had with him at the time of the accident--
" This dog had been through three months' space A dweller in that savage place; Yes-- proof was plain, that since the day On which the traveller thus had died, The dog had watched about the spot Or by his master's side; How nourished there through such long time, He knows, who gave that love sublime, And gave that strength of feeling great Above all human estimate."
 Thus is this striking instance of brute fidelity commemorated by Wordsworth. Scott's lines on this accident commencing," I climbed the dark brow of the mighty Helvellyn," are also well known.
 From Grasmere, 6 miles. -- Follow the Ullswater route( p. 49) till you have passed Grisedale Tarn; then diverge by the path that winds up the steep breast of Dollywaggon Pike. From the top of this route is comparatively level, and the Wythburn track is joined in the last dip before reaching the summit.
 From Thirlspot(" King's Head"), 3 miles. -- The track at first bends back, ascending obliquely as far as Fisher Gill, whence it pursues a fairly straight course to a conspicuous shoulder, after climbing which it continues along the ridge to the" Low Man" and the topmost cairn.
Close to the summit a stone shelter has been erected by the" Lake District Association."
 View from the Top. -- Northwards Keppel Cove Tarn is perceived, having on the right Catchedicam. Beyond the extremity of the tarn Saddleback rears its huge form, a little to the left of which is Skiddaw. Between the two, and in the north-west, a portion of the Solway Firth is descried, and the extreme distance is bounded by the Scottish mountains. Turning eastwards, the Red Tarn, below its" huge nameless rock," lies between Swirrel Edge on the left and Striding Edge on the right. Beyond is the crooked form of Ullswater, the uppermost reach of which lake is, however, hidden. High Street and Ill Bell are near at hand in the east over Striding Edge. Red Screes, Fairfield, and Dolly Waggon Pike are more to the south. The lower part of Windermere is seen over the last-named hill, whilst in a clear atmosphere Lancaster Castle can be descried beyond Windermere. Esthwaite Water is directly south, and beyond is Morecambe Bay. In the south-west the Old Man stands guarding the right shore of Coniston Lake. On the right is the assemblage of hills termed Coniston Fells, whilst Black Combe, beheld through Wrynose Gap, lifts its" whale-back" in the distance. Bowfell and Langdale Pikes are more to the west, having on the right Scafell Pikes and Great Gable. The gorgeous" pavilions" of the Ennerdale and Butteremere mountains, amongst which the Pillar and Grasmoor are prominent, are pitched in the west. Cat Bells is visible, though Derwentwater, upon the west margin of which it stands, is hidden. Honister Crag may be seen in a hollow considerably to the left of Cat Bells. The little sheet of water that glitters on the fell-side westward is Harrop Tarn. By going some little distance north and west you may include Thirlmere and Bassenthwaite in the panorama, but never Derwentwater.
 The Langdale Pikes 
 Ascent of the Pikes from Millbeck. -- The two peculiarly-shaped hills which stand at the head of the valley of Great Langdale, though known by the general name of Langdale Pikes, have separate names. The more westerly is termed Pike o' Stickle, and is lower by 78 feet than Harrison Stickle, which is 2401 feet in height. They are of a porphyritic structure, and, on account of their steepness, require more care than ordinary mountains in ascending. ( A guide may be had at either of the hotels below.) They are conspicuous objects from the upper end of Windermere, and from almost all the southern half of the Lake District; indeed, as far south as Lancaster and Morecambe. They are usually ascended from Langdale, but pedestrians would have no difficulty in making the ascent from the Stake, or from Grasmere through Easedale. The easiest mode, however, is that from Langdale. From either of the hotels take the path to Dungeon Gill( p. 39). This path continues to ascend steeply from the waterfall, keeping the beck on the right hand, and then doubling under a rocky point above. The next part is a more gradual climb over rank grass to the foot of the final steep pitch. Then, keeping the beck that descends between the two pikes a good way off on the right, you will climb somewhat abruptly to a point from which the ascent of either is quite simple. Though of considerably inferior elevation to the other mountains we have described, the views from either of the Pikes are extremely fine. Looking eastward, Helvellyn, Seat Sandal, and Fairfield bound the prospect, and in the north-west and north Skiddaw and Saddleback are seen in the distance. From Harrison Stickle, Stickle Tarn is immediately below the eye, guarded by the frowning heights of Pavey Ark. In the south-east are the hills around the valleys of Ambleside, and beyond, those at the head of Troutbeck and Kentmere. In turning to the south, the eye is attracted by the valley of the Great Langdale, containing Elterwater and Loughrigg Tarn, and terminated by the upper part of Windermere, far away beyond which rise the Yorkshire Fells. Loughrigg Fell conceals a portion of the head of the lake, as well as the town of Ambleside. Underbarrow Scar, near Kendal, is seen over Bowness. Esthwaite Water appears in the south-south-east, and close at hand, towards the right, is the bluff summit of Wetherlam. A small part of the sea is embraced in the view in this direction. Through an opening, having on the left Pike o' Blisco, and on the right Crinkle Crags, Black Combe is presented in the south-west. The Old Man and Carrs shut in the prospect to the left of the last named.
 Scafell Pike 
The aggregation of mountains called collectively Scafell, which stand at the head of Wasdale, form four several summits bearing separate names. The most southerly of the four is Scafell( 3161 feet); the next is Scafell Pikes( 3210); Lingmell( 2649) is more to the north, forming a sort of buttress for the support of the loftier heights; and Great End( 2984) is the advanced guard on the north-east, having its aspect towards Borrowdale. The whole mass is composed of a species of hard dark slate. The Pike, being the highest summit in England, is most commonly the object of the stranger's ambition; some confusion has, however, been caused by the similarity of names, and the lower elevation of Scafell been attained where that of Scafell Pikes was desired, although, except to experienced climbers, there is no ascent common to the two. On the" Pike" a stone shelter has been erected by the" Lake District Association."
 The Ascent. -- This may be commenced from several valleys-- from Langdale, Borrowdale, or Wasdale. Of these, the station from which the ascent may most readily be made is the hotel at Wasdale Head. The shortest way is to cross the valley and go up a very steep path by the side of a wall. This takes you on to the ridge of Lingmell, from which, leaving the summit of that mountain considerably on the left, you ascend more gradually to a green tongue formed by two streamlets. The conspicuous mountain, or rather crag, in front is Scafell, not Scafell Pike, which lies more to the left. From the top of the tongue the route is very rough with boulders, but cairns at short interspaces mark the way to the top.
Another but longer way from Wasdale Head is by the Langdale track to the top of Esk Hause( p. 40), where the route from Great Langdale to the summit( see below) is joined.
 From Borrowdale( Rosthwaite), 6 miles. -- The best course is to pursue the Wasdale track( p. 71) until Sty Head Tarn is reached. Leaving this tarn on the left, and bending your way upwards to Sprinkling Tarn, which must also be kept on the left, diverge to the right round Great End, a little short of Esk Hause( p. 40). The end of the top ridge of Scafell Pike is now in view, but much exertion will be required before the summit is reached. The path proceeds in a westerly direction, leaving Great End on the right; then, rising to the ridge, it passes some rocky eminences on the left. Two small but very rough hollows are then crossed, from the second of which the cairn on the Pike will be reached after a very steep climb of 12 to 15 minutes. The two elevations of Scafell Pike and Scafell, though not more than three - quarters of a mile distant from each other in a direct line, are separated by a narrow ridge called Mickledore, on the Scafell side of which the perpendicular position of the crags obliges for all but experienced climbers a considerable circuit to be made in passing from one to the other. The crags, however, though dangerous are not unscalable, and the more or less direct passages up the various gulleys are favourite practice climbs with Alpine climbers and others who have strength and nerve for such work. Ordinary climbers will accomplish the" Lord's Rake" ascent, which commences a little way down on the north side of Mickledore.
 From Great Langdale( Old Hotel, 6 miles; New Hotel, 7). -- Follow the Wasdale track( p. 40) up Rossett Gill, and as far as the shelter and cairn on Esk Hause, where, turning to the left and keeping Great End on the right, and shunning every temptation to descend into Eskdale on the left, you will reach the ridge of the Pike, as mentioned in the ascent from Borrowdale( above). Here ponies are tethered, not being able to proceed farther. All vegetation but that of lichens has forsaken the summits of Scafell Pike. " Cushions or tufts of moss, parched and brown," says Wordsworth," appear between the huge blocks and stones that lie in heaps on all sides to a great distance, like skeletons or bones of the earth not needed at the creation."
The view from the Pikes is, of course, of a most extensive description, embracing such a" tumultuous waste of huge hill-tops," that the mind and eye alike become confused in the endeavour to distinguish the various objects. The mountains, having lost the shapes they possessed when viewed from beneath, are only to be recognised by those acquainted with the locality of each; however, with the aid of his compass, map, and our directions, the inquiring gazer will be able to assign their names to most of them. Turning to the south, Morecambe Bay and the Lancashire coast to a great extent are seen, and on very clear days the prospect comprehends a portion of North Wales. Scafell intercepts the view of one side of Wastwater and the Screes. To the south the upper end of Eskdale is seen backed by the rocky summit of Harter Fell, between which and Scafell itself the prospect takes in the Duddon estuary, Black Combe, and Devoke Water. Beyond the estuary appear the chimneys of Barrow and Walney. Still more to the east, Bowfell, Wetherlam, Coniston Old Man, with the rest of the mountains at the head of Eskdale, Seathwaite, and Little Langdale, are conspicuous. Bowfell obscures Langdale, but the upper part of Windermere, with the Low Wood Hotel, is seen between it and Crinkle Crags. Far away, beyond, are the Yorkshire hills, with Ingleborough, the monarch of them all, plainly visible. To the left of Bowfell, Langdale Pikes are descried, and in the east the eye rests upon Wansfell, Red Screes, High Street, Fairfield, Seat Sandal, and Helvellyn in succession. In the north Skiddaw and Saddleback cannot be mistaken, beyond which the blue mountains of Scotland bound the prospect. Almost beneath his eyes, the spectator will perceive Sty Head Tarn dwindled to a little spot. Great End rises on the right of it and Great Gable on the left, while beyond appear a portion of Borrowdale, Castle Crag, and Derwentwater, part of which is hidden by the Catbells range. In the north are a series of hills, the principal of which are-- Dale Head, Causey Pike, Grisedale Pike, Maiden Moor, Hindscarth, and Robinson. Then come the Buttermere and Crummock mountains, with Grasmoor conspicuously visible. Nearer are the Pillar, Hay Cock, High Stile, and the Wasdale Red Pike; and still nearer Kirkfell, Yewbarrow, Seatallan, and Buckbarrow sink to the dale and lake of Wastwater. The Irish Sea bounds the whole western horizon, and over the extremity of the vale of Wastwater the Isle of Man can often be perceived.
 Skiddaw

3058 feet high. Summit 6 miles from Keswick.
As this mountain stands at the head of an extensive valley, apart from the adjacent eminences, its huge bulk and great height are more strikingly apparent than those of some of the others of equal or greater altitude. It is so easy of access that any one may ascend on ponies to the summit. Upon one part of it granite is to be found, but the great mass of the mountain, like Saddleback, is composed of a dark schistose stone.
 Ascent from Keswick. -- This mountain is seldom ascended from any other place but Keswick, at which town everything necessary for the expedition will be furnished. The direct route is under the railway at the station( closed on Sunday) or under the bridge behind Keswick Hotel. Keep to the left at the junction of roads above the station, and afterwards take the first turn to the right-- Spooney Green Lane. Follow this till it joins the cart-road above Underscar. Go through the front gate, then bear towards the left to the foot of the steepest ascent, on the right of which is Whitbeck Ghyll, whence Keswick receives one of its water-supplies. There are two refreshment huts on this steep pitch. At a point about 200 yards beyond the top one diverge from the path by the wall and wind away to the left across the rank grass land, and, as the Low Man comes in sight, make towards the foot. Generally there is a small spring of water to be found on the left. Pass through the wicket at the right, the track will lead to a second gate in a wire fence, and thence forward to the highest summit.
Many persons prefer the views which they obtain during the ascent to that from the summit, and reasonably so, if beauty of scenery be sought for. A view will always be indistinct in proportion as it is extensive. Nothing can exceed the charming appearance of the valley and town of Keswick, of Derwentwater and its surrounding eminences, when beheld from the mountain's side; the lake especially, with its bays and islands, is nowhere seen to such advantage. The principal objects which are visible from the summit are as follows:" In the north, beyond the lowlands of Cumberland, in which Carlisle and its cathedral are perceived, the Solway Firth is seen, on the farther side of which the Scottish mountains are displayed in fine arrangement. Criffel is seen over Skiddaw Far Man, and the Moffat and Cheviot hills stretch away to the right. In the east the rival summit of Saddleback( Blencathra) is descried, and far away to the left of it Penrith may be seen reposing in its verdant vale, beyond which the long Pennine range, culminating in the level-topped Crossfell, the highest summit in England outside the Lake District, bounds the prospect. Helvellyn is in the south-east; beyond, Ingleborough in Yorkshire is dimly descried. Between Helvellyn and Saddleback, the High Street range far away beyond Ullswater is visible. When the atmosphere is clear, Lancaster Castle may be seen in the south-east. Derwentwater is not comprehended in the view from the highest Man, being concealed by some of the other eminences of Skiddaw, but from the third Man a perfect bird's - eye prospect of that lake is obtained. In the south there is a succession of five several ranges of mountain seen out-topping each other, from a stripe of the lovely valley to the peak of Scafell Pike. Grisedale in one long line stretches from the enclosures at Braithwaite to its Pike, succeeded in the second range by Barrow, Stile End, and Outerside. Rising from the fields at Newlands, the third range commences with Rowling End, ascending from which are Causey Pike, Scar Crag, Sail, Eel Crag, and Grasmoor-- the last-named lessening the Pike of Grisedale by appearing over its top. The fourth line in this wild combination is composed of Catbells, Maiden Moor, Dale Head, Hindscarth, Robinson, High Crag, High Stile, and Red Pike. The fifth and last is that sublime chain of summits extending on the south from Coniston to Ennerdale on the north; amongst these Scafell Pike and Scafell, towering over the rest, have on the left Great End, Hanging Knott, Bow Fell, and the Fells of Coniston; on the right, Lingmell, Great Gable, Kirk Fell, the Pillar, the Steeple, and the Hay Cock, with Yewbarrow and part of the Screes through the pass at Black Sail. On the right of Grisedale Pike, and beyond Hobcarton Crags and Whiteside, in a clear atmosphere, may be observed more than the northern half of the Isle of Man; and on a mistless sunny evening even Ireland may be seen. The north-west end or foot of Bassenthwaite Water is here seen, the head being obscured by Longside"( Green). Workington can be seen at the mouth of the Derwent in the west, and more to the north the coast-towns of Maryport and Allonby. The town and castle of Cockermouth are perceived, over the extremity of Bassenthwaite Lake, seated on the Cocker. Such is an outline of this wonderful panorama, which may be fitly closed with Wordsworth's fine sonnet:--
" Pelion and Ossa flourish side by side, Together in immortal books enrolled: His ancient dower Olympus hath not sold; And that inspiring hill, which' did divide Into two ample horns his forehead wide,' Shines with poetic radiance as of old; While not an English mountain we behold By the celestial Muses glorified. Yet round our sea-girt shores they rise in crowds: What was the great Parnassus' self to thee, Mount Skiddaw? In his natural sovereignty, Our British hill is nobler far; he shrouds, His double front among Atlantic clouds, And pours forth streams more sweet than Castaly."

