OUR ELECTRIC DISPATCH.  fEeuters Telegram.) Wednesday, 6 p.m. HE AMERICAN TELEGRAM. [We have received the annexed, per Electric and International Telegraph Company, as part of our ordinary despatch ; but it is evidently only another version of the Manchester Examiners telegram, commented on in our leading article.—Ed.] New York, Oct. 21.—0n tho 19th Longstreet attacked Sheridan during a dense fog, before daylight, turning and driving most of his line in confusion, and capturing 20 guns. Sheridan rallied his troops, formed Hue of battle, and defeated tbe Confederates in the afternoou, capturing 50 guns, including those previously taken by the Confederates, and 1,600 prisoners. Gold, 109. LONDON CORN MARKET* (From Kingsford and Lags Circular.) his Day.—Small attendance. English and foreign wheat nominally as on Monday. Spring corn unaltered. LATEST MARKET REPORTS. Leeds, Nov. I.—The arrivals of grain this week are not large. he wheat trade to-day is only slow. Still our millers have to give last weeks prices to enable them to supply their wants. Barley without change. Oats and beans a little cheaper. Bristol, Nov. I.—At our market there was a good attendance of country buyers, and a decidedly better feeling in wheat. ransactions occurred at prices unobtainable last week. Barley dull; beans and peas firm ; oats trifle dearer, if these easterly winds continue our supply will off, and they will go dearer. Maize extremely quiet. Birmingham, Nov. I.—We received a good supply of beasts on offer this day, which met a fair inquiry, at about late quotations. Sheep were a good time of year supply, the trade steady without alteration in prices. Pat pigs a large supply : demand steady, at lower prices. Beef, od. to 7d. per lb.; wether mutton, 7*d. to Bid.; ewes, 7d. to 7£d.; bacon pigs, Bs. to 9s. per score; porkets ditto, 9s. 6d. to 10s. Liverpool, Nov. I.—At to-days market there was a moderate attendance of town and country millers aud dealers, and a fair sale was experienced for wheat, spriug qualities bringing Id. to 2d. over tho low sales of Tuesday last, and other kinds the extreme rates of that day. Oats were more saleable at full prices, aud oatmeal must be quoted 6d. per load dearer. Beans, Is. dearer. Indian corn met with a fair inquiry, at an advance of 9d. per qr. Flour more saleable, and in some instauces rather better prices were made.