AUNTON.  hk Holidays.—The tradesmen of this town have agreed to entirely suspend business on Monday and Tuesday next. he Bbitish Schools.—The Committee of Council on Education have presented a favourable report with regard to these schools. Christmas Show Mabbket.—Our market on Saturday last presented a perfect picture, and was crowded with those articles required for the sustenance of man at the approaching festive season. High prices were demanded, and of course paid. Concebts.—Two concerts were given on Tuesday in aid of the funds for the erection of a new organ in the church of the neighbouring parish of Bradford. Mr. Webber, the Misses Oram, and Miss Vinnicombe, professionals, from Taunton, assisted, and the result was tbe addition of £40 to tbe funds. Sebious Accident.—A serious accident befel Mr. Pyne, baker, High-street, on Friday evening. he pony he was driving ran away and upset the cart, throwing him and his youthful son to the ground. Mr. Pyne was seriously iujured, and also sustained a com. pound fracture of one of his legs. His son fortunately escaped with a few slight contusions. Concert in Aid ob the Hospital.—Mr. Gunn, the talented master of our School of Art, is endeavouring to get up a concert on a grand scale in aid of the funds of the Taunton and Somerset Hospital, which are at present at a somewhat low ebb. We need scarcely say that we wish him every success, more especially when we consider the object is that of the relief of the sufferings of the poor and distressed. he Amebican Wab and its Cause.—Mr. Harring. ton, a native of South Carolina, delivered a highly interesting lecture on Thursday evening, at tbe Assembly Rooms, on " The American War and its Cause." Mr. Harrington is a genuine Southerner, and of course his sympathies are with the Southerners. He threw the whole blame of the war upon the Northerners, whom he protested would never subjugate the Southerners, who were fighting for what was dear to them—their liberty and independence. he vicar of St. Marys, the Rev. W. R. Clark, presided on the occasion.