HAMPSHIRE.  WINCHESTER. Hants Easter Sessions.—These sessions were held last week, Viscount Eversley (chairman). A halfpenny rate for the general purposes of the county, and a halfpenny rate for constabulary purposes, were granted CHRISTCHURCH. Amatetjr Concert.—On Monday morning, the 11th of April, there was again an amateur concert at tbe Town Hall in Christchurch, at which Miss Carleton, Mrs. and Miss Scarborough, Miss Jewell, and other accomplished vocalists kindly assisted. he instrumental and vocal music was of the first class description, and the sweet voice of Miss Scarborough, and her ladylike and graceful appearance, won the approbation of everybody. Her refined execution in the sweet song of " The Spirit of Air" was charming, and it produced an unanimous encore, the only repetition demanded at the meeting. Among the company we noticed the Hon. Grantley Berkeley, General Cleveland, Col. and Miss Coventry, Sir George and Lady Pococke, Lady Gervis and family, Mrs. Entwisle, Miss Eutwisle. Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell, Miss E. Wilmot, Capt. and Mrs. Pococke, Miss Wyndham, Miss Hamilton, and Mrs. nnd the Miss Hamiltons, and other visitors from Bournemouth. he room was filled, and a good sum collected for the funds for the organ in the church. GOSPORT. Fatal Accident.—An inquest was held on Wednesday at Gosport on the body of Major Richard Wollaston Clerke, of the 26th (Cameronians) Regiment, commanding a detachment of the regiment stationed temporarily in Fort Gomer. It appeared that after mess on Sunday evening he lit a cigar and went out alone for a stroll upon the ramparts. He did not return. Ou the following morning his body was fouud in the moat which surrounds the work, and in which water has a depth of three feet. From appearances which could be plainly traced on the ramparts ol the work and iv the moat it would seem that he stumbled over a part of the stonework on the ramparts, and fell over into the moat. His footprints could be traced round the work, in his endeavours to extricate himself, to the spot where the body was found. One hand was bound up with a handkerchief, it having evidently been cut in falling over the parapet. he features were quite calm, and this fact, coupled with the delicate health of the deceased and the shallow depth of water, leads to the belief that he must have been drowned while fainting from exhaustion. An inquest was formally held, and a verdict was returned in accordance with the facts of the case. he funeral, attended w h military honours, took place on Friday L it.