DORSET COUNTY CHRONICLE AND SOMERSETSHIRE GAZETTE. [Supplement—June 27,1861.  whatever eccentric turns the Italian wheel of fortune may take iu making or marring the destinies of that singularly unhappy country. Liberalism is a creature that can accommodate itself to any clime or country; it can lead intense dissatisfaction into the heart of every Hungarian democrat j it can “ put up” M. Deal: and his followers to all sorts of democratic dodges ; it can oppose itself to the best principles of the Imperial policy of Francis Joseph, and it can afford food to feed the hungry, revolutionary appetites of the liberal press throughout the world. It can raise up a host of dissatisfied Hermans throughout the length and breadth of Prussia, who arc striving by every means in their power to damage the authority of the King and tiro Government. he military system of Prussia, as it has been termed, has been founded on an extensive militia system, and some of the greatest victories in Prussia have been gained by those who have enrolled into the army after this irregular fashion. he policy of the present Government of Prussia has been to raise and keep up a vast standing army, on whoso permanent power and strength Prussia may rely in her hour of need to defend her against the fierce attacks of Zouaves, Chasseurs, and Imperial Dragoons. It is the duty of Prussia to adhere and hold fast to her present military policy, and to tread down, with a firm foot and strong hand, all tendencies towards a revolutionary liberalism, come from what quarter soever they may. he Americans still continue to talk in loud, warlike language. Bluster seems to bo one of their national, normal, verbal institutions. If wo are to believe in half the threats they utter, nothing but ultra-annihilation of each other will suit their purpose. A few skirmishes have occurred among their outposts, in which the Federal cavalry (mounted on horses with very remarkable tails) have gained a very brilliant advantage over their opponents. Illness, sickness, and disease are the lot of all men. he Pope, who abjures matrimony and oonjugalism as mortal sins, has been suffering from erysipelas, and the Sultan of Turkey, who rejoices in possessing four hundred wives, and smokes thirty pipes of Latakia daily, has been also very 111, and is dead. Reports of his death have been current in Paris, and these have now been confirmed by electric telegraph.