HAMPSHIRE.  On Thursday, a numerous and respectable meeting of the inhabitants of Winchester and its suburbs, friends of Reform in Parliament, was held at the Guildhall, to take into consideration the propriety of petitioning Parliament on that interesting subject. Mr. William Barnes, the Mayor, was called to the chair. he petitions have received about one thousand signatures, including those of several clergymen of the Close, and the Mayor and Aidermen and several of the members of the Corporation. A motion for lighting the town of Gosport was, we understand, submitted by Mr. homas Hoskins, at a meeting of the Commissioners, on Tuesday last, and unanimously adopted. John Mayo, Esq., late of Walcot, Bath, bequeathed, at his death, £bo to the Hants County Hospital, which sum has been paid to the Treasurer. Conflagration on the Premises of Col. Hawker.—On Monday morning last, about half-past three oclock, an alarming fire broke out in the rick-yard occupied by Richard Leech, Esq. of Longparish. he Whitechurch and Andover engines, under Messrs. Hayter and Reding, arrived with a rapidity that did infinite credit to all concerned. But the barn, together with an immensely large oat-rick and a rick of vetches, then presented one immense blaze, so that the neighbouring pumps were all exhausted before the fire could be got under, and they were compelled to feed the engines from the river, distant about 200 yards, by means of backets. By great exertions, four other ricks, situated within a few yards of the property consumed, were saved, as well as the coach-house and stables, which last were twice partially on fire. he property destroyed, which is worth about £ COO, consists of a large barn, with above 50 quarters of barley, a cart-house, a boat, and various implements of husbandry. he flames were not completely subduea till four o’clock in the afternoon. he lire was evidently the act of some incendiary, Mr. Leech having received a threatening letter, a few nights previously. his awful event has excited the surprise of the whole neighbourhood, as Mr. L. is universally regarded as one of the best friends to the poor in the parish, and is looked up to by them as an example for imitation, on account of his liberal payment and extensive charities. Colonel Hawker was on the spot the whole time, and was indefatigable in his exertions. ;