FAIRS AND MARKETS,  WeyhillFair.—The Mop Fair opened on Monday ; the lumber of pockets grounded in the Farnhatn-row was 357 new pockets, and 100 of preceding years; total Farnhams, 537 pockets. In the Country, or (Jrondale-row, there were “Oft new pockets, and 1100 old, and old olds, making together 1150 pockets Country Hops. he prices may be quoted as under, for the early part of the fair, 1 amhams Irom X*lo to XlO per cwt.; hut at the conclusion of the fair many purchases were made from £lO to £ 12 per cwf., and in some instances as low as £t) per cwt. In the Country-row, from £ll to £lO ; but, as in the other case, at the early part of the tair. £l4 and even £lll was obtained in a purchase or two. Scarcely a sale was effected on Monday; on Tuesday business remained very dull; and on Wednesday night we may fairly state that twothirds ot the Hops then remained unsold. he growers intended standing over Thursday, after which it was concluded either to carry their unsold Hops home again, or warehouse them till Andover fair, in -November.— Cheese of the first quality, which this time twelve months sold at from 755. to 80s. per cwt., met a heavy sale from 555. to OOs. per cwt.—Horses were very numerous, and more business was comparatively done in this department than any other, though the prices were considerably less than those of last year—ln consequence of the line weather the pleasure fair was numerously and respectably attended.  Melksham market on Monday was largely supplied with every description of stock, but miserably dull in respect of demand. here were but few dealers, and the purchases were very limited. Reef Its. (id. to (Is. per score ; perhaps a few prime bcas s Os. lid.; Mutton, sd. to lid. peril). he badness of the times in this dairy and grazing district of the country, hitherto tolerably free from the pressure.) is now beginning to be severely felt. he depreciated value of produce, war price rents, and public local taxes, require that an improvement or alteration should take place, or the landlords will eventually find that they have neglected their own best interest—t/ie melioration of the flute oj the labouring poor.  he Silk Trade.—The letters received from Coventry on Wednesday mention that an individual who had for some time carried on business there as a riband manufacturer, and enjoyed good credit both in I.ondon as well as in Coventry, had. with his family, taken his departure for America. In a letter which he addressed to some of His London creditors, the party referred to stated that sucli had been the ruinous effect produced by the measures adopted with regard to the silk trade, and which had led to numerous compositions where small dividends were paid, that bis resources had been so much involved that he could not go on further, having lost since the beginning of the year £2OOO in bad debts. his individual advises his creditors that he has lelt behind him debts to recover, which will pay 12s. in the pound, and that he has reserved to himself Bs. in the pound to convey him abroad.