WEYMOUTH;—WKDN IiSDAY, May 27.  Among the arrivals of the week are Sir Edward and Lady Poore, Col. PlcyJell, Mr. and Mrs. Richardson, Mr. and Mias Batten, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. H. Gear. Mr. G. F. Cooper, Mr. Suckburgh, Mr. Philip, Mr. Sterling, Mr. Cooper, Mr. and.Mrs. Philips,and Alisa Wyatt. Mr. and Mrs. Fullerton are just arrived at the Royal Hotel from a visit to their worthy relative General Oattli, and have taken No. 2. on the Royal Terrace. On Friday last Mrs. Radclyffe gave a most elegant dejeottf a lafourchette to the Officers of the 6th Carabineers and a select party at the family residence. No. 8, in the Belridere. he proprietors of the Libraries, Inns, and Lodging Houses, nave completed the necessary embellishments for the reception of the nobility and gentry, each endeavouring to outvie the other in their accommodation*. he new establishment at the Royal Hotel, also, have not been behind hand in finishing their new and improved arrangements. In addition to the improvement of the neat Marine Villar, situated on Greenhill, near Brunswick-buildings, which were preferred and occupied last summer by Sir Edward Hartopp and other fashionable visiters, it is worthy of remark that several have also been built near the read leading to the old castle. Aluch taste is displayed in selecting spots commanding the most beautiful and interesting prospects of tht hay, the island of Portland, and the English Channel. hese lelightful chateaus possess peculiar elegance in their exterior, blenled with every internal domestic arrangement, and they offer the tdditional and rare opportunity for those who are desirous of enjoying at the same time, the gayer luxuries of the town and the amg retirement of the country.—Rev. Mr. and Airs. renow, who laely took and furnished one of the Marine Villas, are just arrived and proceeded thither this afternoon.  Mr. Vertue’s musical soitees, which have for so many years past contributed so largel] to the smr.sement of his friends and to the improvement of tnuiic in Weymouth, have lately been particularly attractive. It is hghly gratifying to witness the execution and taste of some of theyouthiul amateurs, whose splendid performances, particularly on th; harp and piano-forte, would do honour to prof essors of establishd reputation. On Monday and yesterday it blew a strong gale of wind at N.K.; two vessels belorglog to this Fort, the Providence, sloop, Capt. J. Bolt, and the Nttingham, brig, Capt. Way, in consequence, went ashore near Portbnd Castle, but it is expected they will be got off without much damigc—During the gale, the elegant Brunswick steamer, from Flymoilhto Portsmouth, with passengers, put in here, and after taking in a >upp)y of coals, started again this morning. A number of spectaton assembled on the Quay to witnesa her departure. On Monday H. M. revenue cruizer Sylvia, commanded by Lieut. Williamson, R.N., brought into this port a French boat, with four French and two English sailors, and 17 casks of spirits, captured after a chase of four hours.