WEYMOUTH:—Y/ EDNESDAY, July 8.  Among the arrivals of the week are Gen. and Mrs. Wilson, air O. and Lady Hewitt, and the Misses Hewitt, Sir Charles Waller, Bart., the Hon. and Baroness Dimsdale, Lady Jones Bridget, Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Kadcliffe, Dr. Henry H. and Mrs. Fox, Dr. Forbes, Rev. Mr. Hatcher, Major and Mrs. Crowe, Captain Webb, Mr. and Mrs. Duncotnbe, Mr. and Hon. Mrs. Stawell, Mrs. and Mist Buckley, Mrs. and the Misses Honey, Mr. and Mrs. Hallett, Miss Smith, Mrs. Jolliff, Mrs. Rawlins, Miss Bishop, Mr. and Mrs. Walmesley, Mrs. Farquharson, Mr. and Mrs. Baskett, Mis. Brown, Miss Neat, Mrs. Amos, Mrs. Standish. Mr.Symonds, Mr. Clark, Mr. and Mrs. Southcot, Miss Abbott, Miss Gould, Mr. Collins, Mr. M‘Tier, Mr. and Mrs. Scudamore, Mrs. Spry, Mrs. Row, Mrs. Strangways, &c. he royal visit of Charles X., King of r ranee, to Cherbourg, is fixed for Monday, 24th August. Lord Yarborough, in his superb Yacht, the Falcon, has been at anchor in our roads for some days past. his rooming she got under weigh, and has been sailing to and fto for several hours, affording a pleasing tight to the promenaders on the Esplanade. His Lordship, accompanied by his daughter, the Honorable Bliss Pelham, came ashore in his barge, and paid a morning visit to Sir George and Lady Thomas, and invited Sir George, Lady and the Misses Thomas to an elegant entertain, ment on board. hey were received with every mark of attention, hit Lordship’s admirable band striking up “ God save the King,” and “ Rule Britannia.” On the landing of his Lordship, the pleasure yachts in the harbour hoisted the British flag, in honour of the noble characters. he bay now exhibits a most gay nautical scene, all the pleasure yachts being in requisition. Sir Edward and Lady Poole, Mr. and Mrs. Urquhart, and Mrs. Hamilton, and many other fashionables, in their respective boats, now form a little fleet round the Falcon, _ _ On Sunday last, after Divine Service, an immense concourse of people, of all ranks, were assembled on the Esplanade, to bear the band of the 6th Dragoon Guards perform several pieces of sacred and other music. We can with confidence state, that they were executed in a stile eqaai, if not superior, to any we have beard since the days of George the Third, ofblessed memory.