O BE DISPOSED OF,  A GREEN-HOUSE, with a Glass Roof, 30 feet long, in excellent repair, lata the property of a Lady deceased. Apply, if by letter the postage to be paid, to Air. C. HOARE, Builder, Beaminster, Dorset.—Also, a choice collection of Plants.  SHILLINGSTONE, DORSET.  Six miles from Ulandfotd, 4 from Sturminster Newton, 9 from  Shaston   South Down Couples, Pur and CKner Hogs, Cart Horses, Farming Implements, S^c. O BE SOLD BY AUCTION, By O. MONK. On the Premises, without reserve, on Wednesday, the 25th day of March, 1829,  HE following Live STOCK, FARMING IMPLEMENTS, &c, of O. . JACOB, Esq., declining the Farming Business: consisting of 112 four and six-tooth ewes with their lambs, 72 pur sndchtlverhogs(ailof the South Down breed,) 3 valuable cart horses, 1 ditto mare, 5 pair of trace harness, 4 pair of thill ditto, 7 pair of plough ditto with back ties and iron traces, hoops and belli for & horses, 4 collar bows, (! Ron rein head stalls, 3 good waggons with iron arms, 3 good putti with ditto: 1 raved cart with ditto, market cart with ditto, 2 ploughs and tackle, 2 iron drags, tormenters, 3 iron harrows, wood liitto, 2 good rollers, 3 rick staddles with 7 stones and caps, 1 ditto with 9 stones and caps, reed press, ox break, ladders, 3 dozen sack bags, bushel and half bushel measures, Amesbury heaver and vires, fan and stacks, with the whole of the bsm implements, patent bean bruiser (by Perkins,) com bins, cowand sheep cribs, com and hay prongs, rakes, iron bar, 8 dozen hurdles, stable lantbom, with other hus. bandry implements, ani a quantity of potatoes. he Sheep are well bted, in good condition, and need no further comment. he Hones are in their prime, sound, staunch to collar, ate fit for immediate use, having been constantly worked. he Staddles are quite perfect, the Stones and Wood having been used but a few years. he whole of the Implements arc good. Refreshment at 13 o’clock ; the Sale precisely atone. Shillings tone la os the Turnpike Road leading from Blandford to Slurmmster Newton.