SPAIN.  Letters from Madrid state, that several new bands of the ultra-loyalists have been formed in Catalonia, under two priests named Punal and Carajol. in consequence of this cir. cumstance, the Spanish troops, who were about to return from Barcelona to Madrid, have had their orders countermanded. All the roads in Spain are infested by banditti, so that it is im tossible to travel with safety, unless accompanied by large escort In some of the provinces, the robbets have adopted the Italian s rstem of making travellers captives, and detaining them until they are ransomed. On the 2uth ult. a respectable inhabitant of Orchitela, who liad been taken in this way, was ransomed for 20,000 francs.  he bulletin of the sanitary state of Gibraltar, presented, on the 25th ult., the following results:—On the 20th therewere2lO sick. On the 21st, 22d, 23d, and 241h, the contagion attacked 231, persons, which formed a total of 441 sick. Between the2lst and the 241h 40 persons died, and S3 recovered. On the 25th, the number of sick was 812. According to a letter from Bayonne, the yellow-fever has ap. pearetl at Seville, and the troops from Cadiz have suspended their march, to form a cordon round that city. PORTUGAL.  Letters from Lisbon, state that there was a current report there that the Cortes would be again assembled to advise on the means to put the country in a state of detence, in cose the foreign Powers should refuse to recognise Don 51 igucl os King. Other accounts represent Don Miguel to be so disconcerted by the withdrawal of the Pope’s Nuncio and the Spanish Ambassador from Lisbon, that he sent a Courier to Madrid with despatches, soliciting Ferdinand to obtain for him a reconciliation with Don Pedro, on condition of his keeping his engage, ment with his niece, Donna Maria Gloria. his courier, who arrived at Madrid on the 4th inst, was the beater of several valuable diamonds, sent by Don Miguel to the Spanish capital for security. he advices received in Madrid on the 3d inst, from Oporto were very favourable to the cause of Don Pedro. Several of the principal inhabitants had manifested in an open man. net their satisfaction with Don Pedro’s proclamation, and a counter-revolution in favour of the young Queen was considered probable.