binary RUSSSA AND TUHKKY.  Paris, March 12.—The news which has been received to-day from St. Petersburg justifies the apprehensions which were conceived on the effect the Turkish Manifesto would excite in that capital. his document, by whatever name it may have been called, has been considered by the Russian Cabinet as a real daciaration of war, with the more reason, as repeated acts of hostility accompanied the publication of it—the Bosnhorous entirely closed against navigation—Russian vessels confiscated—the influence of the Pone easily recognised in the rupture of a treaty which Russia was on the point of concluding with Persia—the losses sustained by Odessa. So many causes of complaint did not permit Russia again to refuse a defiance so boldly offered to its power and its moderation. We must, therefore, expect shortly to receive official notice of the passage of the Pnith by the Russian army, and of the occupation of the principalities. It is still difficult to foresee what may be the consequences with respect to the treaty of July 6, of a determination which the provocations, all directly proeetdiing from the Porte, aeem to render more peculiar to Russia.  LONDON; MONDA Y. MARCH 17. 1828.  A Russian Messenger arrived on Saturday at Prince Lievcn’a, brineins the Declaration of the Emperor in answer to the Turkish Manifesto. his document is said to take a view of the subject announced in the French papers, and to make the quarrel with Turkey an individual one, at the same time that it expresses an intention to continue to act in conjunction with England and France. he many grievances to which Russia has submitted ever sinee the commencement of the Greek insurrection, especially the Persian war, which is described as caused by Ottoman intrigue, and its renewal within the last two months in consequence of fresh solicitations from Constantinople, are said to be stated at sufficient reasons for justifying Russia in acting independently of her allies; at the same time that her fidelity to her engagements prevents her from commencing positive hostilities without their concurrence. Prince Polignac also received despatches from the French Government, and immediately waited on the Duke of « ellington, with whom he had a conference of two hours. A Special Cabinet Council was immediately summoned, and Ministers sat in deliberation upwards of three hours. Another Council was also held yesterday, and both were very fully attended. Saoings Han I:*—A return lias been made to Parliament of the total sura received from Ranks for Savings and from Friendly Societies, in Great Britain and Ireland, ny the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, from August 1817 to January 1828. he amount received is £17.0fi».«41t,; and on this the interest paid and credited it i3,u23,4t11, being £4117,027 more than Guvcrnmcr.; actually rectived on the Stock purchased.