DORSET ASSIZES.  NOTICE is hereby given that his Majesty’s JUSTICES of ASSIZE, assigned to hold the Assises in and for the County orDoraet, will open the Commission for the said Assizes, at DORCHESTER, on Friday, the 14th day of March, 1828, immediately after which they will proceed to hear Divine Service. he Courts will be opened for dispatch of business, precisely at nine o’clock.on the following morning, and all contcables, jurymen, and others, are required to attend accordingly. EDWARD CA3TLEMAN, Under Sheriff. WiMBOaN*, Feb. ST, 1828.  NOTICE is hereby given, that JOHN GREATHED HARRIS, Esquire, or one other of His Majesty’s Commissioners for the Relief of Insolvent Debtor* will, on the Eighteenth day of March, instant, at the hour of 10 in the morning precisely, attend at the Court House, at DORCHESTER, in the county of Dorset, and hold a Court for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors, pursuant to the Statutes.  BEAMINSTER GRAMMAR SCHOOL,  DORSET. Messrs, g. a. henessy and son, (the Conductors of the above Establishment,) return their best and most grateful thank* for the liberal patronage and support they hare received since their residence at Bisminsteb, and beg leave to assure their Friends that the same system of Education continues to be adopted, which has hitherto given such acknowledged satisfaction and gained »o decided a preference. G. A. H. and SON after many years experience, find it more conducive to their Pupils’ general improvement, to follow a mild and emulative treatment in lieu of that harsh and rigorous discipline which is 100 much exercised in most Schools. ,G- A. HENESSY and SON take this opportunity of in. forming their Friends and the Public, that they have engaged a DRAWING MASTER of the first eminence from Town, (who is a resident in the Establishment,) as is also a FRENCH MASTER, who has for many years resided in France. he beautiful and healthy situation of Beamixsver, is too well-known and appreciated to need a comment The Premises have been lately much improved, and an extensive play-ground with a large and handsome school-room, together with airy Dormitories, add essentially to the health and comfort of their Pupils. rms moderate, and the most undeniable references given. AN APPRENTICE WANTED.—Premium expected.