DORSETSHIRE,  o Iron Founders, Millwrights, Engineers, and Capitalists, \\Most Advantageous and Desirable BUSINESS to be Disposed of, together with Valuable FREEHOLD PROPERTY, which   Will be SOLD by PRIVATE CONTRACT, In Three Lots, situate in the Parish of ALLINGTON, adjoining BRIDPORT, Dorsetshire; (the Proprietor retiring on account of ill health.) Lot 1 All those extensive and convenient PREMISES, called The Itridport Foundry, containing rooms fur fitting up machinery, work rooms, store rooms, lathe, smith’s and carpenter’s shops; the /moulding shop is spacious, with a powerful crane, drying stove, coke oven, &c. he water wheel, driving geer, blowers, lathes, &c. are driven by a fine stream of water, arid well found in every respect, having lately been made new at a considerable expense. he business, which has been successfully carried on upwards of 30 years, is now. and will be kept until disposed ef. in active employment; and the power may be sufficient, independent of what is required tor the purposes ot the foundry, to drive a boiling, bone, grist, or paper mill. A convenient DWELLING HOUSE adjoins it, comprising parlour, hall, kitchen, back-kitchen, larder, cellar, and five bedrooms; a counting house looking into the foundry yard, and flower garden in front of the house. Near to the above is about an ACRE of very rich PASTURE and GARDEN LAND, with a stable, barn, and other buildings thereon; this lot combining altogether advantages which seldom otter for sa’«. Lot 2—THREE DWELLING HOUSES, with Garden to each, contiguous to Lot I. in the occupation of the I*oreman and others employed in the foundry. heir situation renders them an ■eligible investment. Lot 3 consists of THREE CLOSES of L \\ ND. contiguous to Lot 1, viz. one Meadow, one Arable, and one Pasture, containing together about 11 Acres ; a part of which is well adapted tor building, as it commands a beautiful and picturesque view over a line wooded country. he whole of the above Properties are adjoining the Turnpike London Road, leading from Bridport to Exeter. Early possession will be given ; and every facility and encouragement aftorded to the Purchaser. Part of the Purchase Money nny remain on the Properties if required. Should the above Properties not be Sold, they will in that case be Let. A Map of the Property may be ha 1, and particulars known on application to Mr. Joseph Gai.pin, Surveyor, Btidport. Bridpoht, Ist September, 1838. /