POOLE AND ITS PROSPECTS.  he enthusiastic and unanimous public meeting of Wednesday afternoon last—a report of which appeared in a second edition of our paper—is one more proof that the inhabitants are becoming aware of the necessity of making a determined effort to revive the trade of the town, and increase Its commercial prosperity. Ever since the Dorset Central line was projected we have endeavoured to show that its advantages to Poole must be of no ordinary character, and we are gratified to find that every argument we have put forth and every idea we have expressed is in a fair way of being adopted and carried out. he able speech of our esteemed representative, Mr. Denby Seymour, fully and lucidly expounded the exact state of the railway acoommodation of Poole, and judging from the applause with which his remarks were greeted as well as those of other speakers, there appears every determination on the part of the inhabitants to support the Dorset Central line, and thus show that the allegation as to the sufficiency of the present accommodation is incorrect. he Treaty of Commerce between France and England will aid considerably in developing the trade of this port, as the Dorset Central line opening up the coal fields of South Wales and as a matter of course make Poole a depot for steam coal. As Mr. Robert 4lade remarked at the meeting, it is impossible to estimate the extent of the advantages the treaty will confer, but if any line or any port is to be bonefitted the Dorset Central and the port of Poole must be those. his sentiment was fully endorsed by subsequent speakers, and we again reiterate it as being founded upon a correct basis. We are glad to find that the support I rendered the Dorset Central is of a substantial character, no less than £lO,OOO being subscribed in four days. With such a gratifying prospect before us,we think we may safely predict a career of future prosperity for our town, and when the line is completed there can be little doubt that the improvement of the harbour will be a matter of course.