Cl RANG Ell’S ANTIRILIOUS A I* ERIE NT W FAMILY PILI^S: a most excellent Remedy for all Inactions or Obstructions of the Stomach and Bowels, Bile, Indigestion, Bilious or Sick Head-Aches, habitual Costiveness, &c. As a remedy for inactions of the stomach and bowels, these pills cannot be too strongly recommended, as the very numerous cases of dyspepsy and want of action of the bowels may very generally be referred to some derangement of the functions of that important organ, the liver. ilts may happen from various causes, such as excessive heat, fatigue, anxiety of mind, &c., but is more frequently brought on by the intemperate use of fermented liquor, and more particularly of spirits. he debility thus produced on the stomach is communicated to the liver and neighbouring viscera, and consequently a deranged action is immediately set up, which cannot fail of extending its influence to the whole system. hese pills will prove highly beneficial in habitual costivene.ss, accompanied with sick head-ache, as they cleanse and purify the blood, evacuate acrid bile, gouty humours, and all impurities to which the intestines are so liable. hey will ho found superior to most aperient pills offered to the public, as they never gripe, unless the bowels contain large quantities of acid matter, and then but very little. heir operation is gentle and effectual, and they are warranted not to contain a panicle of mercury or antimony, and as such they do not require confinement or alteration of diet. Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by Edward Granger, chymist and druggist, Yeovil, Somerset, in boxes, at 13£ d. and 2s. 9d. each, duty included. Sold wholesale and retail, by Dicey and Co., No, 10, Bow Churchyard; Barclay and Son, Fleet Market; and Butler, Cheapside, London ; and retailed by all respectable medicine venders in town and country. Of whom also may be had. GRANGER’S VEGETABLE WORM POWDERS, celebrated for their efficacy in destroying worms, in packets for grown people, and children of more than ten years, l3Ad. each, and children under ten, 9d. Also, GRANGER’S VEGETABLE TOOTH-POWDER, well known for its superiority in producing a beautiful whiteness, without impairing the enamel, in boxes, at 13$ d. each, X 3* Please to observe none can possibly be genuine, unless the directions and stamp affixed to each packet and box have the proprietor’s written signature.