LOCAL NEWS.  WIMBORNE.  PCTITIONS AOAI 41IT CHURCH Ragas.—ln the House of Commons, on Thursday, Mr. Her S.ymer presented petitions against the unconditional rep .s 1 ul church rates from the clergy of the rural deanery of Dorchester, %lelbury Osmond, Tarrant Munkton, Gussage All Saints. Pimperne Church Defence Associat.on, West Parley, Wimborne Minster, and firma Gunville.  Rtrt Coars.—Ou Thursdayeveningan important meeting of the above corps was held in the New Hall. Among the gentlemen of the committee present sve noticed W. Oruitt Esq., W.L. Adye Earl., Rev. C Onslow, C.R.sHowe, Esq, Captain Coventry and Ensign Robinson were present. A government inspector also attended, and for upwards of an hour watched with great interest the movements of the corps, at the close of which be addressed the corps as follows : —Gentlemen volunteers.—l shall have to report that you have made considerable progress in your drill (applause). I trust that when I meet you again you will be provided with arms, but as you are not sworn in you cannot yet obtain them. I have now just one piece of advice to give you, that is, never attempt to put your neighbour right, it causes confusion iii the ranks; if your neighbour goes wrong the drill instructor will put him right. Do the best yon can and let your neighbour do the same, (applause). 1 he inspect r than left after which Captain Coventry said the inspector hid told him that this corps was more efficiunt in their drill than some which he hid seen with arms. He then announced that the day appointed for the swearing in of the corps was Wednesday the 29th of February, at 10 oclock p.m. He hoped that the corps would soon be provided with their rides, but as three weeks would probably elapse before they could receive them it would be hest to provide the uniform first. he officers of the corps have expressed theta intention of attending the levee which Her alajesty will hold for the reception of officers of the volunteer corps, but as the corps might not be fully equipped by the 7th of March it was thought best to postpone it till the second levee it being Her Majestys intention to hold three levees.