HE NAVY.  Portsmouth, July B.—On Sunday, the Eden, 24, Captain John Lawrence, C.8., armed from the Warn India station, last from Malta, where she leaded Commissioner Rosa and family.—She left that Island on the 15(h of May, aM Gibraltar the 13th of Jane; the suiteym{-ship Captain Copeland, was the only ship ia the Bay. io intelligence by her from Malta is not to recast as that contained ia oar last paper. From Spain, there is no particular news. he whole province of- Andalusia was quiet, the earn and tine crops asst abundant in that district, and generally throughout the country. he Algerines were particularly quiet; they do not now molest the skips of any nation whatever. he Amencu Squadron was in the Archipelago. he Edea has been four years ia Coauaission, and so effectual has bean ths system of Hygieaae rirnm mended, and screpulouly adopted, that only three mea have died on board her in that period. She sailed on Thursday, fog Deptford, to be paid off. Last night the Swinger, 10, Lieut. 6. W. Matson, arrived from the Coast of Africa, having bean nearly fonr yean <m that station, during which tbo font three Commanders by the fever of that climate. She left Sierra Leone on the nth of May, bringing one of the Commiwiooen of Inspection sad Inquiry, who, went out some months sines. he rainy season had jogt commenced, but the ships were remarkably healthy. On Tuesday hit Mfjestv’s brig Alacrity, Captain Geo. J. Hope Johostoaa, arrived Rom Naples, whence she sailed m the Std May, bringing despatches from Admiral Sir Harry Neale, who was about to sail is the Revenge, for Athsns. baSyNOe, 46, Sir Samuel Peckell, Bart., had proceedsd thither. On Friday and Saturday last a Court Martial was held at Plymouth, to try Mr. Georgs Hsanafotd, Master of bit Majestys ship North Star for his conduct whoa that ship was run ashore on the Breakwater; wbea the Court agraed, that hit Majestys ship North Star was run upon the Breakwater, oa the Sith of June, through the gross negligence of the said Mr. G. Hasoaford, in conducting the said ship into Plymouth Sound; and Ihi Court, therefore, did adjudge Mr.Hanaaford lobeditr missed from hit Majestys Fipoa, PrMidrel