CHRISTMAS-DAY IN LONDON.  he air on Christmas-day was as mild as in April, and the sun shone with almost summer heat and brilliancy. he streets, however, were damp and dirty. he churches were well attended in the morning, aud the thoroughfares were filled with throngs of people. In the forenoon the in-pensiouers of Greenwich Hospital, numbering nearly 2,400, were mustered and inspected by the lieutenant-governor of the institution. After attending Divine service, tbe veterans proceeded to the dininghalls, each man being provided with lib. of roast beef, vegetables ad libitum, plumpudding, and a quart of strong ale. his least is in addition to the usual messes of mutton, soup, and potatoes. he ordinary quantity of beer was served out in the afternoon. A quantity of snuff and tobacco was also provided. Notwithstanding the periodical gaol deliveries which have taken place under the New Bankruptcy Act, a considerable number of debtors will spend their holidays this year under the guardianship of the metropolitan sheriffs. But even to these the season brings some share of gladness and good cheer, and if the provision made for them by the benevolent be somewhat less bountiful than formerly, that fact is doubtless owing to the comforting thought that their general position is so much ameliorated that it no longer needs the same solicitous consideration. On Wednesday the Lord Mayor, in accordance with time-honoured custom, sent a donation of materials for a Christmas dinner to the inmatas of Whitecross-street Prison. he present consisted of a substantial allowance of roast beef, bread, and vegetables sufficient for every prisoner within the walls. he number of prisoners incarcerated in this the city prison amounts to 78, and as those of their body that can afford the luxury of a private banquet decline to partake of the Lord Mayors bounty, their less fortunate brethren receive a superabundant allowance. Only 21 prisoners spent yesterday in the debtors side of Horsemonger-lane Gaol, and they divide among themselves two bequests left to Surrey prisoners for Christmas cheer by a Mr. Arthur Mouse and a Mistress Jemima Hackett during the last century. hese bequests however, were prudently limited in amount, doubtless from a hygienic consideration of the dangers of high feeding where there can be no exercise. he sum left by the frugal Mistress Hackett is only 13s. 4d. per year, while the magnanimous Mouse left but 12s. hese stipends, supplemented by £1, according to custom, from the Archbishop of Canterbury, are all that the prisoners in custody of the Surrey Sheriffs are afforded to supplement their ordinary rations. he sponging-houses are said to be unusually full. heir inmates are dependent entirely on their own resources for whatever ot Christmas merriment they may enjoy. he Queens Bench is absolutely deserted. he large bequests left to the prisoners is unappropriated this Christmas. hey are, by the Act of Parliament under which the Bench was closed last September, placed at the disposal of the Lord Chancellor. he poor in the different workhouses were liberally provided for.