GLOUCESTERSHIRE.  he orchards and gardens in the neighbourhood of Cheltenham, hare, in many situations, been stripped, by a serere blight, of every restige of fruit. Bliuht The extensive tract of Woodland country eastward of Monmouth, comprising the Beaulieu Grove, Hadnaelc Wood and the Crown property, have become a scene of devastation by’the ravages of blight; thousands ct oaks which a few dava since sueh pleasing verdure have been entirely atrmued of tiieir foliage, and have become winter-like in appearanceP The grub has confined itself to the oak stores or trees, and when tlie leaves of one tree are devoured, the insects lower themselves by a fibrous web, which they spin, and ascend the next: there are few oaks throughout the whole ol these woods but what have been visited by this destroyer of vegetation. he oldeat woodwards on this property do not remember such destruction to the oak. ,  %   he magistrates of Bristol have issued a notice, expressing their determination to enforce the severest penalties of the law against all persons who permit their dogs to be at large unm(listed, or who shall keep dogs without having entered or paid duty for the same. # 1.»» •* i A great sensation was excited in the suburbs ot .Bristol on Saturday evening last, by the following melancholy occurrence. A young man, named James Nutt, had, it appears, come home in a state of intoxication, and entered into an altercation with his mother, whe sent for another son, named Philip, to protect her against apprehended violence- When the latter came, James, being incensed at his brother’s interference, struck him immediately on bis entering the bouse, and Philip returned the attack by striking the deceased a violent blow under the car, on the jugular vein, which instantaneously deprived his unfortunate brother or life. An inquest was held on Monday, at the Duke of Marlborough public-house, St. Philip’s, before Joyner Ellis, Esq., and a verdict of Mauslantthter returned against Philip Nutt, who has been committed to Gloucester Gaol, to await his trial.