SCHOOL BOOK FROM THE TRANSACTIONS Of THE ROYAL SOCIETY. y/8 This Day is published, second edition, price 10s. 6d. bound, with numerous Engravings, in one large Tdfam»,l2w>., * t Readings in natural philosoPHY, or a display of the Wonders of Nature; for the use of Schools Extracted exclusively from the Transactions of the Royal Society of London ; and containing every Paper of Popular Interest and General Instruction, published by the Royal Society, from its in 1663, to the present timt*. Dedicated to the President, Council, and Fellows; and to the Schoolmasters and Governesses of (he United Kingdom, By the Rev. C. C. CLARKE,  Author of “The Wonders of the World, and the Wonders of the Heavens.” Few nations can boast such rich stores of scientific treasures as  are to be found in the Transactions of the Hoyal Society of Great Britain. Hut the expensive size of the volumes and the number that has accumulated for more than a century, place these treasures beyond the reach of ordinary readers, and it appears strange that selections of the most popular papers have not been frequently published. I bis has been done At last by Mr. Clarke in his Readings on Philosophy ; the papers are selected with great taste and judgment; wherever it was requisite that they should be abridged, the spirit and style of the original author has been preserved, and wood cuts executed with great skill, aie in trod iced wherever illustrations arc necessary. London: Printed for Whittaki:r, Treacher, and Co., Ave Maria Lane, and sold by all booksellers.  NEW AND ORIGINAL SCHOOL BOOKS. his Day is published, price ss. bound,  A RETIRED GOVEKNESS’S LEGACY to the Young (tidies of an extensive Establishment near London, which she conducted for above Forty Years; treating of every branch of Knowledge, and of all accomplishments and personal acquirements essential to the finished education of a Female: in a series of a Letters, of lengths adapted to Class Lessons in Schools; and the Work is now provided with Foya Hundred Questions on its instructive contents, to aid the studies of Young Ladies, which may be had separately, at Niue Pence, or honnd with the book.  Published by Poole and Edwards, Stationers* Court; and sold by all booksellers.