HE CHURCH.  Oxford, April 10.—On Saturday last the following IJegteei were conferredof Ant: The Kev. Henry >y rightson, of Qaeeni College, Utand Compounder; and Charles locock, of Christ Church, bachelor of Arts: John Pearson, of Magdalen Hall. he Lord Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry held an Ordination on Sunday last in the Cathedral Church of Vlells, when the following gentlemen were ordained Deacons: George Harrison, 8.A., St Johns College, Cambridge; Win. Fieon, 7T Catharine Hall, Cambridge: John James, 8.A., Queen’s College, Oxford.  AGRICULTURE AND TRADE.  Duty on Corn.—Since the 6th of August last, the wheat of iiritith pouesiion* haa paid a duty of St. per quarter, the price regulating the duty being 66*., and declining till the average of March 3, which was 565. 9d. per quarter, foreign wheat has paid 3«». the quarter duty aince November », the average price regulating the duty being 565. the quarter; so that the duty has been two-thirds of the price. In November and Decemberof 11)28, and Ja nary and February of 1829, the wheat paid only Is. duty, the price being 74*. and 75*., when there were sometimes brought into the market upward* of 400,00# quarters a week. Butin one week, July 9.1829, there were brought into the market upwards of 250,000, paying a duty of 10*. In two or three weeks, in such revenue quarter, the government received for duty 09 foreign corn only, nearly ,£l.V),oooa week. Scab in Sheep.—For this plague of the graziers a thousand remedies have been suggested, but few have been found efficacious. he fallowing recipe ha* recently been tried, with great success, in France. Mix a pound of soft soap with four ounces of euphorbium finely powdered ; add enough spirit of turpentine to give the mixture the consistence of pomatum, and hav. ing carefully dipped the wool, anoint the animal every day with the composition. By this mods, it it said, a speedy cure may be relied on.  FAtBS AND MARKETS. At Probus fair, on Monday, there was the best supply of fat cattle seen at any fair in this part of the county, for some time. he sale, however, was not very brisk ; the prices obtained were from 40s. to 455. pec cwl. Sheep went oif heavily at from sjd. to fid. per fl>. ruro cattle market, on Wednesday, was well supplied with store cattle, which brought about 30s. per ewl. Fat beasts, ofwhicb there was a good supply, sold freely at about 425. per cwt. he accounts from Manchester within these few days are of a very gratifying description, A very brisk demand now prevails both for manufactured goods and yams, and prices are somewhat higher. Business is also much brisker at Oldham, and the spinners are now pretty generally employed. he woollen cloth trade in the West Riding of Yorkshire is greatly improved, but the demand for fancy goods continues dull, and prices Seem unable to get up. Our letters from Glasgow speak in favourable terms of the slate of business in that city; and express a confident expectation, that in a very short time, the manufacturers will have little, if any, cause of complaint.