GLO UC EST ERS H1 RE.  Bristol.—On Friday the 16th instant, in pursuance of advertisement, a meeting of the electors of Bristol was held at the Assembly Rooms, for the purpose of considering a proper Representative for that city, to supply the vacancy occasioned by the retirement of Mr. H. Bright, and after a long discussion Mr. Protheroe and Mr. James Baillie were nominated. Mr. Protheroe offers himself upon the ground chiefly of being an Abolitionist of Slavery in the Colonies; Mr. Baillie, upon the support of the same measure, so far as it is regulated by reason, prudence, and experience. Opening of Pittville Spa at Cheltenham.—Tire opening of Pittville Pump Room and Promenades to the public, took place on Tuesday the 20th inst., to which period it had been postponed by the lessee, Mr. Seymour, in consequence of the lamented death of his late Majesty. he breakfast consisted of every delicacy of the season that could be applied to a morning repast, and although the tables were necessarily crowded, all present seemed perfectly satisfied with the entertainment. At half-past two, the company adjourned to the ball room where an excellent band was provided for the occasion from the Assembly Rooms, and the effect of the music beneath the dome was delightful. he ball was opened by the daughter of Sir Wm. Burdett, and the Hon. R. Boyle, youngest son of the Earl of Cork, who led off in a new quadrille, called ** The Pitville Spa,” composed expressly for the occasion. A succession of Quadrilles, Waltzes, and Les Cahrpades, followed, which were continued with great spirit, under the superintendance of Mr. Marshall, Master of the Ceremonies. At six oclock, the amusements closed with the national anthem of4* God Save the King,” and the company retired highly gratified with the brilliancy and edit which had distinguished this elegant/ere. A numerous gang of London pickpockets are traversing the West of England; last week they commenced their depredations in Bristol, and were particularly active among persons quitting places of Idirine Worship.