n Persons Killed at Alnwick.  An inquest was opened by Mr. Hardy, the coroner for North Northumberland, on Thursday afternoon, at Rock, about five miles from Alnwick, on the bodies of Mary Ann Orpeth, aged 13, Jane Orpctb, 16. Isabella Richardson, 20, Elizabeth Scott, 17, Anne Hh11,21, David Woodcock, 16, Isabella Straughan, 16, and Margaret Smith, 21, young persons killed on Wednesday,by a steam thrashing machine boiler explosion upon the High Moor Farm, occupied by Messrs. Barber. Sir George Grey and the Rev. Mr. Cooly, the incumbent of Rock, were present at the inquiry. he facts of this most melancholy occurrence appear to be as follow;—On Wednesday afternoon a number of young women, chiefly “ bondagers” upon the farm, were assembled around the fire of the boiler-house, chatting after dinner with some lads, before they resumed work in the barn adjoining. Some masons had been there warming themselves, but had just return to work, when at 20 minutes past 1 the farm steward called in at the door of the boiler-house that it was time for the young people to come out and resume their employment. Seven of the party rose, and were in the act of going out, the other six, five of whom were girls, remaining at the fire, when the boiler exploded with an appalling noise. hose who had remained sitting were killed on the spot. Among them wore two daughters of a poor widow named Orpeth. he seven who were in the act of leaving the building were all severely injured, and two of them have since died, and it is feared that some others ol those injured will scarcely survive. he boiler, which is described as having been a very old one, was carried by the force of the explosion completely through the roof of the building, which was knocked into ruins by the concussion. he b Her was hurled to a height of 40 feet over the neighbouring straw barn, and fell on the opposite side into the yard. A girl who was spreading chaff in the straw barn was injured by the falling pantiles, and a little boy, the son of the steward, who was playing at the door of the boiler-house at the time of the explosion, was hurled to a distance of 50 feet against a hayrick, and one of his legs was broken. Ample surgical assistance was sent out from this town as soon as a messenger arrived with the intelligence of the catastrophe, and everything that could bo done was done tor the relief of the unfortunate sufferers. Sir George Grey, as soon as he heard of the calamity, came over from Falloden to render any assistance in his power. Besides those killed there are seven persons injured. wo more deaths have since occurred, making ton who have fallen victims to this sad accident. heir names are David Richardson, 16, and Robert John Palliater, the son of the steward, a little b >y, aged seven, who was hurled against a hayrick and had one of his legs broken. Some others of the young people who were injured are so severely mutilated that but slight hopes are entertained of their recovery.