STATE OF FARMING.  Review ow the Cobh Teade doriho the Past Webe. Wheat —The previous wet and damp weather causes most of the samples brought forward at last Monday’s market to be in poor condition; and, although the supp y from Bssex and Kent was short, the trade on the whole was dull • a few samples picked out of the runs, in moderate condition, were the only parcels which commanded former rates • all other sorts were offered Is. to 2s. per qr. lower. he transactions in foreign qualities were unimportant. here were very limited arrivals of Knglish on W eduesday, but liberal imports of foreign. Any samples of homegrown on moderate condition met a steady sale at the currency of Monday, and there was a retail demand for foreign, without any quotable change in the prices.-ihe fresh arrivals of English on Friday were trifling, but the imports of foreign amounted to 20,350 qrs,, principally j from the United States. Home-grown in moderately good order sold steadily at Monday’s quotations, and there was a fair retail remand for foreign at quite as much money, the country demand mainly running on American red, spring as well as winter. Baelbt.—The trade for malting qualities was slower than of late, and a decline of Is. per qr. had generally to be submitted to, whilst qualities adapted for feeding purposes could not be bought at any quotable reduction. A limited supply on Friday had no effect on prices, and the trade was steady, without the least change in the value of any description. Grinding samples sold more freely than malting. . , Oats.—All good English realised former prices, with a moderate sale; and the best foreign commanded as much money. here was a moderate addition to Wednesdays market, and no quotable change occurred in the value of i any sort. On Friday the large dealers bought sparingly, | but the consumers took off a fair quantity; good fresh and - heavy corn realised about as much money, whilst soft I Scotch still sold slowly, and at prices likely to lose money to the shippers. Beans.—There have been moderate supplies of English,