MILBORNE ST. ANDREW.  Harvest Home.—The old-fashioned and time-honoured festival of harvest home was celebrated with great spirit on Wednesday last by that staunch yeoman, Mr. Henry Symonds, who had invited his friends and all the labourers on his extensive farm to join with their friends in rejoicing over the completion of the harvest as the finishing point of their years toil and labour. Mr. Symonds acts upon the " Live and let live" principle, and this is only one of the many ways in which he shows a lively interest in the happiness and welfare of those around him. he men, their wives, and the elder boys received general invitations, and of course there was much pleasing anticipation with regard to the event. he large granary in the commodious range of farm buildings was specially fitted up for the feast, and it indeed looked not only comfortable, but really picturesque, with the profusion of flowers and evergreens, which were very tastefully displayed, while chandeliers depended from the roof, in order to illuminate the place for the evenings dance. About eighty of those connected with the farm here sat down to a substantial repast of good old English fare, and on a platform at the end was seated their worthy employer, surrounded by several of his friends, who would no doubt have been more numerous but for the fact that Sir E. Bakers sale happened to fall on the same day, and which drew away many of the neighbouring farmers. When all had feasted their full and the cloth had been drawn, Mr. Symonds proposed the toast of the Queen and the Royal family, which was received with due loyalty. Next came the health of that estimable lady, Mrs. Michel, of Whatcombe House, and of J. C. Mansel, Esq., both of whom are always ready to assist hi the advancement and general improvement of all rathe estate. his toast was drunk with the warmest enthusiasm ; and then followed that of " the founder of the feast," which was appropriately introduced by Mr. J. R. aylor, and drunk with a rapturous applause, which proved how good the understanding there is here between the employer and employed. he convivialities of the evening afterwards commenced in real earnest, and the excellent songs of the inimitable "J. R.," with those of several other friends, kept all in a happy state of enjoyment for some considerable time. Dancing followed, and was joined in with unflagging spirit till close upon midnight, when the national anthem brought the joyous festivities to a close. All appeared in the happiest mood throughout, and their pleasures were without alloy ; while not one, from the greatest to the smallest, could have returned home without pleasing experiences of the hospitality which had throughout marked this old-fashioned English harvest home.