ATROCITIES IN SICILY.  he following letter has beta addressed to the Tiniu, by Mr. C. W. Buidges : In one of your powerful appeals to humanity on behalf of the oppressed Sieili ins, you lately noticed the atroci• ties committed under authority by the police of Palermo in the ear 1848, when they last attempted to free themselves from the oppressor, and most true is your unvarnished tile. On the morning of the 17th of February in that year I was among the foremost, end the °Ply Englishman press nt, when the rush was made into the disclosed region of death which you refer to. he facts were these :—About 40 of the +Wei had been captured by the revolutionists, treated by them with kindness, and placed in otour.ty until they could be lent to Naples —a friendly precaution to present their being murdered by the indignant mob, which then broke into the police palace, and cast the books and fiarniiure from the wins do,“ and loopholes there were in It, but no opening to one entire wing of the dark prisoushotue. Presently, on removing one of the huge bookcases, some fresh-plam tered wall appeared concealed behind it ; *passage was quickly broken through it, and the senses were almost overpowered by the steaming effluvia which issued front seven dark chambers communicating with each other, where, upon clearing the loopholes, • secreted scene of mirror was before ma, such as wants the best, testimony to he believed. here lay human bodies, and the mud. lated remains of such, in every state of eath and decay, —bundles of rotting rags mingled with bones, and limbs and filth filled the corners of the smaller rooms ; chains hoog rivetted to the walls above, when some of these remains had dropped ea they died—some till bolding in their iron grasp the Hen or antics of their famished victims. Skeletons, almost fleshless, were piled upon others which were quite so, and placed on stone shelves which had served as their beds while living ; naked Metier., black and pulpy, were hidden beneath others us ire recently dead, yet alive with maggots; and greater hoirur still, two hunter bodies in writhing attitudes were hanging crucified upon the wall of the largest chamber, the reeking, bloodstained stones of which held rusty spikes corresponding to the outstretched bands and feet of others which had been so suspended, and Atilt retaining the stringy remains of mulichs torn to ebrede, from which the heavier portions hod dropped and lav in heaps of putridity beneath. Shrieks of indignant horror arose from the iufuriate crowd, a portion of which rushed back to the prison where the captured abject were secured, brought them out, And shot them down on the instant. Others remained, raking and searching among the bones and todies, examining minutely the putrid remnants of those they ranch!! might have been their fathers, brothers, or kindred,who had long been missing. but whose fete they knew not. One of the abirri, whose life I tried in vain to save, endeavoured to ps made me that the suspended bodies were not crucified while alive, bet nailed there to slugs went the tortures of the living prisoners.