LYND H UR ST.  CAPITAL RUN WITH THE New FOREST Fox HOUND. —On Thursday, the 9th instant, the New Forest fox hounds met at Boldrewood, arid drew Holme Hill Inclousure, where the famous bitch pock soon winded a Inc old fox, who stole away over the Ringwood rued to Gillett Inclusure. %here he turned to the right and crossed Church Moor, thence at a clipping pace, to Burley ; leaving Burley to the left, he pushed forward through Beech Beds to the earths at Oakley, where, to his aurprse, he found no admission. He then made a turn back over Buldre. wood Hill to Gillett Inclosure, and through Hulme Hill, to Thrifty Beeches ; here he again turned to the lett, sod ran almost in a straight direction • distance of five miles to Over Fields ; then took • backward direction to Holme !Jill, thence to Emery Down,crowing to Minesteed Manor ; he ther tacked back to Notherwood, and from thence back again to the Manor, where, after a brilliant run (Arnie hour and forty-five minutes, Reynold was compelled to succumb to his pursuers. RESIGNATION Of Elll TIMSON, MASTEI OF THE New FOREST Fox HOUNDS.— We regret to announce the resignation of Mr. fimson, the esteemed master of the New Forest hourids, who has hunted the country for the last five seasons, to the entire satisfaction of those gentlemen, members of the hunt and others, who have been fertunate enough to witness some of the splendid sport which he has so often afforded during his career as such ; and although he relinquishes the mastership, we earnestly hope that a continuance of good health will enahle Mr. f imson to take is usual prominent place in the bunting field for many years to come. It should be remembered that Mr. imson accepted the mastership at a time when no other gentleman could be prevailed upon to do so ; it is therefore to be hoped that the members of the hunt will testify their feeling of gratitude and respect either in the shape of a testimonial or farewell banquet. Mr. imson will be succeeded by Captain W. Fdornat.  SHIPPING INTELLIGENCr:.  POOLE.