MB PIES AND THY CHANNEL ISLANDB MANTIC.  A letter was read from the Comptroller of Customs (Mr. Cheesetaari),—in reply to a letter from the Town Clerk—stating that until au approved baggage ware hoUse bad been erected at the pier, or adjacent to it for the Channel Islands steamers, the packages must be lauded at the Custom-house. He also expressed his willingness to furnish the council with the number of the packages landed,but not those embarkeil,noacccunt being kept of outwards.—Mr. Cevenish said Captain Cusens bad wisely suggested that the new stage might be built sufficiently wide and covered in, so as to afford the necessary accommodation to the Custom-bouse.— Mr. Drew said the council would get into a hornets nest, and incurs an expenditure of a £l.OOO, if they first consulted Om customs authorities, who woulo, if the council acted upu n their own plans, acquiesce, and seek to promote the facilities of trade.—The HarbourMaster was instructed to proceed to Southampton andPottsmotith to ascertain the charges for the loan of a steam dredger and lighter to dredge the harbour.lt was alsodecided,on the proposition of Mr. Hare seconded by Mr. Hibbs, that the Town Surveyor should prepare a plan and specification for the erection of a jetty and the accommodation of the customs authorities.—Mr Ailing was informed that by fully carrying out the Act of Parliament an annual income of £1,400 or £1,500 might be realised —lt was stated that the average daily receipts (excepting Sundays) had been £2 which does not include the Channel Island steamers, no accommodation being yet provided for them at the pier The next business was to " take into consideration the covenants of the Victor is and Waterloo place leases." —From the covenants it appeared that the original lessees or assignees were liable fur the repair of the roads behind these buildings, and it was unanimously resolved, " That the Town Clerk he instructed to take the necessary steps to compel the original lessees of Victoria place and Waterloo piece to carry out the covenants of their leases in relation to the roads at the back of both buildings, and that the Town Clerk do report. what progress he has made at the next meeting." —After the discussion of several matters connected with the Board of Health the meeting separated.