CORFE CASTLE.  RESTORATION OF THZ CHERCII.—The exterior of the Church is now rapidly progressing towards corn pletion. he roof is of slate, altogether out of character with the heavy stone coverings of the houses around it, and with the general feature of the original churches and ancient buildings of Purbeck. Corte Castle is much nearer the beds of tile stone than Swanage, yet the latter can boast of retaining the former character of the church now rebuilding there in this respect, and as originality was strictly to be preserved in the restoration here, the substitution of slate fur stone and lead appears to be departing widely therefrom, while it exhibits a mixture of the ancient and modern which fancy alone can reconcile.—Communicated. A MERRY CHRISTMAS PARTT.-011 Friday evening last the workmen and labourers employed on the estate of J. H. Calcraft, Esq., assembled with their wives and families at the Hall, where they were regaled with a plentiful supply of bread and butter, rich cake, and the cup which is said to cheer but nut inebriate. After which the company were amused by the school children singing some cheerful pieces. At the conclusion of the evening a splendid Christmastree was exhibited, from which each of the guests received presents and returned home much gratified. ESTIMONIAL OF RESPICT.—We are much pleased to find that our late townsman, Mr. Joseph Willis. bas received a piece of silver plate front the firm of Messrs. 11. Fayle and Co., as a token of their esteem for his services whale manager of their clay works. Mr. Willis succeeded his father as principal agent for the above firm, which situation they filled jointly for nearly 70 years. with great satisfaction both to the employers and employed. Mr. Willis has lately relinquished his situation and taken • farm in the neighbourhood of Salisbury, with the view of bringing his sons to agricultural pursuits, a business which he ever delighted in. he testimonial is • silver inkstand neatly executed with an appropriate inscription engraved thereon. We understand that the working. men employed at the Clay Pits which he for so long a time managed, are each going to subscribe towards presenting Mr. Willis with a similar token of their respect.