Attempted Murder.—John Ball, a farm labourer, was brought up at the Caerleon sessions, on Tuesday, upon the charge of attempting to murder William Moulton, labourer, at the Park Farm, Llantarnham, on the 19th ult. Moulton, who had been too ill to appear until the present time, stated that he was employed by Mr. Scard on the Park Farm, and lived in the house with Anstey, the bailiff. On the morning in question he went out about five oclock to tend his horses as usual, and was shot in the back. He turned round and saw prisoner walk away. He became faint, and was carried into thi house. he police were communicated with, and, having obtained a clue to the4 prisoner, apprehended him ou the charge. he surgeon who attended the wounded man stated that for a time he considered him in a very dangerous state, having marks of fifty shots in his back; many of which he had extracted, and now produced. he man, he believed, would ultimately recover. he prisoner stated that he was not the only person concerned in the affair, and that he did the crime at the instigation of Anstey, who offered him 2s. to shoot Moulton, as ho was a bad fellow, and they should then get rid of him altogether. he bench committed the prisoner for trial A Man Roasted to Death.—A Berlin letter says : A few days ago a butcher, going his rounds in the country, near Stuttgardt, at an early hour in the morning, perceived the smoke and reflection of a fire in the fields. On approaching the spot he found a man lying burnt to death under the charred fragments of a heavy waggon. Of the our horses, three were dead and roasted; the fourth, all but unscathed, standing qruetly by, and gazing at the stranger with that look of horror and dismay of which the hor,e among the members of the brute creation is alone capable. A broken lantern lying beside the mutilated corpses of man and beast, and the place where the accident occurred, told the tale as fully as though it had taken place before the eyes of a coroner and his jury impannelled upon the spot Deceased, a labourer, in the employ of a respectable farmer, had been driving a load of hay along the highway at ni-ht. Coming near the spot where his master s fields commence, a horse, or some of the horses, getting restive, wanted to leave theroad, and take their accustomed way across the c> v lry. Before he could prevent them, they had dragged the waggon into the ditch, overturned it, and buried the man, who must have been walking at its side, under the hay. One of his legs and arms were broken, the lantern he carried in his hand smashed, and the hay set on fire. here he lay in the lonely night, unable to orawl from underneath the oppressive weight, slowly roasted, and dying a martyrs death at the stake.