NEW BAILEY.—Monday, February 9.  Gilbert Frceland, Jonathan Grcenhalqh, and William Zl were into the dock charged With an attempt to commit a robbery at the Stanley Arms, Broughton Road, r. h v v evidence against them was, that on Saturday Pgnt, the three prisoners went together into the house, and in about an hour afterwards, a lad belonging to the house, Having occasion to go up stairs, found two men in one of the rooms forcing open a box. he moment they saw him they sprang through the window. One of the men the lad was able to say positively was Greenhalgh. A young woman who was casually passing in the street, saw Greenhalgh jump through the window, and ai the same moment rreeland passed her running away from the house. He was stopped by a gentleman named Woolley, who, not knowing the circumstances of the robbery, allowed him to go away ; at that time his hat and clothes were dirty, and a little girl came forward this morning to depose, that she saw two men jump from the window both of whom fell ou their backs, and the hat of one fell off. She could not swear to either of them, but the one whose hat fell off she saw stopped by Mr. Woolley. Higgles the officer stated, that when he went to the house, he found that no less than 12 locks had been forced open, and the contents of the drawers and boxes strewed about the room. When Frecland was apprehended, he denied that he had ever been stripped as described h; the witnecac*-, ir shaft" he xsm afewe nt alUi Under these circumstances, Greenhalgh and Freeland w.re committed to the sessions; against Matley there was no other evidence than that he was in their company an hour before the robbery. He was ronsequemlv discharged. John Saunders was committed for stealing aboui 100 lbs. we.ght of old iron from the yard of the tiki Quay Company. he prisoner was seen coming over the paling which enc.oses the yard about seven oclock on Saturday evetting; and being followed into Great John-street, he was stopped, with the iron m his possession John Acinn, an apprentice of Mr. James" Bradford, was committed tor stealing a piece of brass from the premises of his employer. wo you:,g men were charged by 31r. Chantler, the constable of Ardwick, with playing at pitch and toss during divine service yesterday One of them was fined ss. and costs, and the otiier was ordered to find sureties to keep the peace, in consequence of bis having assaulted the officer who took bun into custody. UESDAY. Mrs. Walkden, the pawnbroker in Salfird. was summoned by an individual on the charge of taking more interest than is allowed by law. It appeared that the goods were pledged on the Bth December, and redeemed on the 22d January. he sum advanced was its, and the interest charged by ..Irs. Walkden was 4d. In reference to the act it was found that Mrs. Walkden would be entitled to two months interest, which would amount as near as possible to Sfd, the overcharge being thus about a farthing. Under these ci-cumstances the complaint was dismissed.