COURT OF KINGS BENCH, Nov. 17.  he King v. the Manchester Guardian— Mr. Cuesswell moved for a rule to shew cause why a criminal information should not be filed against the proprietors of the Manchester Guardian, at the in stance of .Mr. Clement Roydes, a magistrate of Roch. dale. At the assizes at Liverpool three persons were indicted for a highway robbery on one of the sons of Mr. Roydes. hey were convicted, and judgment of death was recorded against them, but the sentence was afterwards commuted to transportation for life. Some persons afterwards interested themselves in order to obtain a remission of the sentence, and application was made to the Secretary of Si ate, and a person was sent down from Mr. Cappers office to examine some Irishmen who were then under sentence of death at Shrewsbury and who had given some information relative to the robbery. Some statements appeared in Wheelers Manchester Chroniclt condemnatory of the parties who were thus interfering; upon which two articles appeared in the Manchester Guardian reflecting on the character of Mr. Roydes, and accusing him of having written the paragraphs which had appeared in Wheelers Chronicle and also of having written false statements of the case to and to Lord Denman, before whom the men were tried, and they further stated that he bad been actuated by party feelings. Mr CresswELL said that Mr. Roydes in his affidavit stated, that hearing exertions were being made on behalf of those men, be bad written two letters to Lord John Russell, in which he had begged that a remission ofthe sentence might not take place without a close investigation being made into the facts, at the same time offering himself to render every assistance in bis power that every fact might be brought to light; and the affidavit further stated that Mr. Roydes was not actuated by any improper motives. he learned counsel urged, that trials ought not to be heard over arain or discussed in newspapers on the notes of unauthorized persons, who attended fortbe diff rent journals. jjo d Denman thought enough had been shown as to a personal imputation on the character of this gentleman for the court to grant the rule.