Literature.  Blackwoods Magazine—The August number contains some excellent articles. Sonnets by the Sketcher, are full of genuine poetry. Casimir Ferier is a continuation of the interesting biographical memoir which was begun in the last number. he paper on the Food of the Herring and the Salmon, is replete with curious facts. houghts and Images contain some striking and original reflections. he Avenger is a tale of deep and powerful interest, and is evidently the production of an able writer. he Lace Merchant of Namnr is also an interesting story. Christopher in his Cave contains some delightful scraps of criticism and of poetry. Erasers Magazine The essay on the " Greek Comedy," with which the number opens, will be read with interest by the classical reader, as will also the Homeric Ballads, by Dr. Maginn. " Ensign ODonog hues Packet from Belgium is written in a lively dashing style. " Our Club at Paris" is continued with spirit. " Little Men and Little Measures" contains a severe castigation of the political tergiversation of Lord Palmerston. " English Officers in the Carlist Camp," is an amusing collection of personal anecdotes. he other articles, especially " OConnells Plea for a Peerage" will repay perusal. hx Dublin University Magazine This excellent periodical is continued with a degree of ability worthy of its well-established reputation. he beautiful poem " Rubi, a Tale of the Sea," is concluded in this number: its interest is well sustained to the last. he Drunkards Dream is an interesting story well told ; and the same remark will apply to " Poor Margaret," and to " The Student of Leipsie." he AnXhologia Germanica contains some charming selections from the popular songs, and lyrical poems of the Germans ; and the other articles, particularly the By. vsays of Irish History, are generally good. he British Magaxine—There is nothing very remarkable in the number for the present month ; but it is due to its conductors to state, that its contents consist of papers chiefly on interesting points of Ecclesiastical History, of Theological Discussion, or of questions relating to the Church, such as Church Rates, Tithes, Presentation, &c, all of which are treated with judgment and ability. Nicholas Nickleby, Part V As this truly original and amusing publication proceeds, the interest of the story increases, and the genius and humour of the author are displayed in several graphic descriptions and well imagined scenes. he illustrations, by Phiz," are capital.