|3oetrg. ISRAEL AT THE RED SEA. From chains and thraldom thro the desert past, Arabias sea a gulfy barrier cast; There lost, confounded, prisond, on the shore, The avenger rode behind, destruction yawnd before! " Give back, Deliverer! give the bonds," they cry, " What! Egypt lackd a grave! hat here we die!" »*»»»» Lo ! from the pillard fire and wreathing smoke, In echoing thunder, thus Jehovah spoke: "God, hath He promisd?—will He not fulfil ?— •* Stretch oer the sea thy rod, and bid their tribes be still." hen, forth advaned the prophet, lifts his rod, Nor knowing why, but twas the word of God !— A sudden silence oer the yielding flood ; A sudden calm, the conscious waters stood ; And, wliile he prayd, behold ! he sundering title, Tremendous miracle, the seas divide! And roaring, bursting, hurld on either hand, Piled up immense, the surging mountains stand ! And Israel saw a path where rode the waves, The abyss of Ocean, and his empty caves I Then awful fear each contrite bosom moved ; Their hardend hearts, and unbelief reproved; They wept, they supplicated, and adord, And sough tbe face and favour of their Lord ! He, gracious, heard;—and now descending night, High in the van, His symbols guiding light; While glorying, hymning, praising, after pour, Their countless hosts, and shake the ocean floor ! • •«••* Hark ! swept the whirlwinds!—raging in the rear, With lifted torches, PharOs bands appeaT: The ruddy light glares thro tbe opaque afar , Glancd on the arms and armour of the war. Now answering shouts ascend the startled sky; Now martial danger mingles with the cry !— Doth Israel doubt ?—behold, the roving fire ? o rearward flaming heavens avenging ire ; The sparkling sands burn in his fervid way, The salty rocks, and weed-hung caverns grey. Now, who pursues, with intervening care ? Omnipotent Jehovah watches there; Red, scorpion lightnings, rend his awful form; He rolls tempestuous clouds, and wings the storm. • **-*• What dismal voices haunt their horrid gloom, While mocking spectres dig an ocean tomb; Dismay is in their hearts, and dost thou fly,— Pale King, thine hour is come, and Egypts destiny ! • 2 * * • * The morning dawnd, and from the tented shore, Lo, Israel lookd !—the mighty were no more.— The dread sea rolled in all his wonted pride, And Egypt slept beneath the laughing tide. WM. HARPER.