HE DUKE OF YORK.  he parish of Clerkenwell has set an example which we should be happy to see followed throughout the kingdom A most numerous meeting of the inhabitants was held on the 20th inst. to prepare an address of thanks to his Royal Highness, expressive of their gratitude for the manly, seasonable, and auspicious support given by his Royal Highness to the Protestant constitution of these realms. An attempt was made to interrupt the proceedings of the meeting, by a few individuals, among whom was one Mr. Murphy, (a hodman we suppose, from the name) but the resolutions and address, were, however, carried by an immense majority. We subjoin the first and third resolutions, and one paragraph of the address: " That the most grateful thanks of this meeting are due to his Royal Highness the Duke of York, for the manly, seasonable, and auspicious support given by him to the Protestant constitution of these realms, and for his interposition to protect from violation those prerogatives of the crown, which, administered by the House of Brunswick, have ever proved the firmest bulwark of the rights of the people. " That the sincere thanks of this meeting are due to the Right Hon. the Earl of Eldon, and to the Right Hon. Robert Peel, who kindly undertook the charge of presenting our petition to parliament ; and to all the other able champions of the Protestant constitution, who, in its late danger, came forward to defend it." he following is the paragraph alluded to, as forming part of the address:— Upon no occasion, however, has the care for the interests of the people of England, that has always characterised your Royal line, or that zealous affection for your country, by which you individually have ever been distinguished, been more conspicuously displayed than in your conduct upon a late momentous question, when, in a spirit worthy of your illustrious ancestors, worthy of the first subject of Britain, and worthy of the brother of the greatest monarch of Europe, you came forward as the champion of the Protestant constitution, upon which all our public liberties and our private happiness depend, and interposed to protect from violation the most sacred of those prerogatives of of the crown, which, administered by your ancestors, have ever proved the firmest bulwarks of the rights of the people."