STOCKPORT WELLINGTON CLUB.  (Abi idjed from the Stirkport Adoertiner.) he members of this truly loyal association, met on Saturday last, to celebrate the birth day of this illustrious hero. he Theatre was most tastefully fitted up for the occasion, and at the back part of the room, over the Presidents chair, was a large full length portrait of the gallant Duke, by that excellent native artist, Tvir. Shuttleworth, a member of the club. On the right and left were suspended two standards of the Cheshire Yeomanry, each accompanied by a large and brilliantly-illuminated star. Opposite the portrait, at the extremity of the room, was aW. the initial of Wellington, also illuminated. Festoons, formed of a profusion of laurels, evergreens and flowers, profusely displayed, and scrolls on which the name of Combermere, Hill, Anglesca, and Wellington, were separately inscribed, in appropriated situations. he interstices were occupied by brilliant stars, similar to those at the head of the table, and transparencies, flags, and banners, filled up the vacancies occasioned by the galleries, producing an effect rarely to be witnessed. Immediately under the illuminated H were suspended two flags, bearing the numbers (45 and 105) of the two French regiments, whose standards fell into the hands of the British There were also, on each side the tables, a largebust of the King, and another of the Duke of Wellington, crowned with laurel. he dinner was furnished by Mrs. Higginson, of the Warren Bulkeley Arms, in her best style; and the wines by the celebrated Mr. Chari.es Wright, of London, wine-merchant to the royal family. A little after five oclock the Chairman, (G. W. Newton, of Taxal Lodge, Ksq.) entered the room and took his distinguished station. He was supported on the right and left by Captain Humphreys (the perpetual Vice-President,) T. W. atton, Esq. Francis Philips, Esq. rafford Trafford Esq. Colonel Ford, Major Swetenham, H. Calvely Cotton, Esq Leigh Trafford, Esq. About 100 other members were present. After the cloth was withdrawn Non nobis domine was sung by the professional gentlemen, Messrs Hunt, Calvert, and Warren, and among the appropriate toasts which wre given during the evening, with Wellington Honours, were " The Kins,  _" The Duke of York,"—" The Army and Navy."—" The proud support of his countrys honours, the Duke of Wellington." Wellington Honors, and 3 times 3. his toast was accompanied hy the firing of several pieces of ordnance, at the back of the castle, which added greatly to the effect.— The Cheshire Hero, Lord Combermere."—" The House of Brunswick and the Protestant Ascendancy." with an eloquent preface by Mr. rafford " That Noble Pillar of the Church and State, the good Lord Chancellor."—"The Earl of Liverpool and his Majestys Ministers."—Our Protestant Advocate, the Bishop of Chester."—" The gallant and perpetual Vice President, Captain HunvJireys."—"Mr. Peel,"—" The Members for the County."—" The Manchester Pitt Club."