©rirjip.al poetry. ALES AND HISTORIC SCENES. BY MPS. HEMANS. We observe, with much pleasure, that a new edition of this work has recently been published. Although one of the accomplished authors earlier productions, it contains some of her finest poetry—poetry which combines deep and fervid feeling, with extreme beauty of language and illustration. We regret that the most beautiful pieces in the volume are so long that it is impossible to give any one entire. We extract, however, the close of The Widow of Crescentius, a poem which contains passages •qual to the finest in Lord Byrons Giaour. It must be premised that Crescentius having been treacherously put to death by the Emperor Otho, Stephania, his widow, found means to administer poison to the murderer. he following is part of her address to Otho before she is led to execution:— The secret of thy doom to tell, My name alone suffices well I Stephania !—once a heros bride! Otho! hou knoWst the rest—he died. Yes, trusting to a monarchs word, The Roman fell, untried, unheard ! And thou, whose every pledge was vain, How couldst thou trust in aught again ? He died, and I was changed—my soul, A lonely wanderer, spurned control. From i>eace, and light, and glory hurled, The outcast of a purer world, I saw each brighter hope oerthrown, And lived for one dread task alone. he task Ls closed—fulfilled the vow, The hand of death is on thee now. Betrayer! in thy turn betrayed, The debt of blood shall soon be paid! hine hour is come;—the time hath been My heart had shrunk from such a scene; That feeling long is p?st—my fate Hath made me stern as desolate. Ye that around me shuddering stand, Ye chiefs and princes of the land I Mourn ye a guilty monarchs doom f Ye wept not oer a patriots tomb! He sleeps unhonoureu—yet be mine To share his low neglected shrine. His soul wh>\\ freedom finds a home. His grave is that of glory—Rome! Are not the great of old with her, That city of the sepulchre ? Lead me to death ! and let me share The slumbers of the mighty there 1 The day departs—that fearful day Fades in calm loveliness away: From purple heavens its lingering heam Seems meltmg into Tibers stream, And softly tints each Roman hill With glowing light, as clear and still As If, unstained by crime or woe, Its hours had passed in silent flow. he day sets calmly—it hath been Market! with a strange and awful scene: One guilty bosom throbs no more, Anil Othos pangs and life are oer. And thou, ere yet another sun His burning race hath brightly run, Released from anguish by thy foes. Daughter of Rome! shalt find repose. Yes, on thy countrys glowing sky Fix yet once more thy parting eye! A few shut hours—and all shall be Tbe silent and the past for thee. Oh ! hus with tempests of a day We struggle, and we pass away, V Like the wild billows as they sweep, Leaving no vestige on the deep! And oer thy dark and lowly bed The sons of future days shall tread, The pangs, the conflicts, of thy lot. By them unknown, by thee forgot.