Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, MARCH 17. PRICE OP BRITISH STOCKS THIS DAY AT TWO. Red. hree per Cents, shut J Bank Stock shut Cons. hree per Cents. 93§ ! Long Annuities, shut Threeandahalfper Cents. | India Stock shut 31 per Cents. Reduced shut ] India Bonds, Four per Cents. 106 Exch. BUls (ljd.) 53 Consols for Account 93g }, j{ | City, Two oClock—The British stock market continues heavy. Consols for April are 93| and 932 J for money—ln the Foreign market there is little doing. he South American securities have rather improved ; Colombian bonds are 91$ ; Mexican bonds !(t« HI ; Mexican scrip 3 pm. ; Spanish bonds ; Greek scrip 334 dis. Colonel Berkeley Colonel Berkeley has been so imprudent as to enter the office of the editor (Mr. Judge) of the Cheltenham Journal, this day, with two persons of gentlemanly appearance, and to first insult and then grossly assault him During the late expose occasioned by the proceedings on the trial of Footer. Hayne, the editor of the Cheltenham Journal occasionally indulged in making some apparently just, but rather severe and pointed animadversions on the conduct of the Colonel. he article which had drawn upon the head of the unfortunate editor the personal chastisement of the Colonel was inserted in the last number of the Cheltenham Journal, and contained some proper and sensible remarks upon the Colonels advertisement puff", intimatipg that upwards of a hundred ladies were at the Berkeley Hunt Ball The Colonels conduct on this occasion was quite consistent with his behaviour to Mr. Horatio Clagget. It requires little personal courage to play the bully. he Colonel had two ruffians to a«sist him in this exploit. Me are credibly informed that the beautiful Miss Foote, of Covent Garden Theatre, will certainly be married to Mr. Hayne, this day. (Thursday), before noon. he principal parishes in the borough of Leicester send up petitions against any further concessions to the Roman Catholics. Phe corporation of Leicester have also decided upon a petition against the claims.