Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27. City, Twelve oClock.—The consol market opened this morning at 84A lor the account, but has since been heavy, fluctuating between 83| and 84, and has now declined to 83£ for money, and 83$ J for the account. Four oJClock—Consols for Account, 83J. By the Romona, steam boat, we have received accounts from Oporto to the 21st; and from the fleet, which was in latitude 37. 21., longitude 11. 37., to the 18th instant. he two fleets remained in sight of each other, and it was expected would come to an engagement as soon as Sartorius had been joined by the vessels which he was then expecting at Oporto. Affairs remained in nearly the same state as when the last accounts left. He have seen a letter, of which the following is an extract, from Lieutenant-Colonel Hodges:—"On the 16th instant we had a brilliant affair. We drove the Miguelites betore us from all parts. My little British band crowned themselves with glory. Never was there any thing more brave than their repulsing the enemy from the heights . they actually fled before us, and lost one field officer and 50 men. Santa Martha commanded in person against my part of the line, and had three regiments of the line, one of volunteers, and one of militia, against 200 British and 150 Portuguese. 1 lost one officer, Colonel Staunton, one officer wounded, two men killed, and 17 wounded." Frankfort Fair—Sept. 14—The first week of our corn fair this year has not otTered any satisfactory result, and we have to add thatour autumn crop must be reckoned among the worst that we have yet had. No important transactions have taken place as yet in any article. We no longer observe that spirit of activity which used to reign in our streets, especially at harvest time. he inns alone have benefited by the presence of foreign travellers, and of those who have come to our town through business. Notwithstanding the sad state of our trade in this circumstance, it cannot be said to be more wretched than that of Offenbach, only as our merchants transport their goods from that town, when they effect the sale personally, the principal mass of money entering, consequently, into their coffers, gave a little more animation to the fair. Smuggling is going on actively; it is even said that there are companies who insure that kind of speculation. he value of houses and other fixtures decreases considerably in our town, while it rises at Offenbach. he number of poor increases daily, as well on account of the bad harvest as of the exorbitant taxes which they are obliged to pay to the customs for the introduction of their merchandize. heir progressive increase has engaged our Senate to take measures for the improvement of the asylums which are destined for them, for the keeping up of which the subscriptions of the philanthropic citizens are no Longer sufficient Suabian Mercury,