We have been exceedingly edified by the remarks which have appeared for some weeks pttt in the Times newspaper on the subject of combinations. he Editors suggestion of the proper plan to put a stop to Unions, &c. reminds us of the old nursery story of the boy who was recommended to catch sparrows by putting salt upon their tails. " There is but one method," says our contemporary, "of dealing with a bully—namely, that of setting him at defiance;" and lie goes on to hint that masters ought to put a stop to Unions by " inexorably breaking with them and their mulish followers." his is very good, and seems extremely sensible; but  it does not always happen to bo altogether practicable. he relative situations of master and man ,*.re essentially different ; For whilst the operative may be losing a few shillings per week their masters myst sacrifice hundreds and sometimes thousands in the same time. It is folly, therefore, in the Times to recommend a course to the principals which is next to impossible for them to pursue. We arc pleased, notwithstanding, with the evident good intentions of our liberal contemporary. But he goes on still further. He begins to expose the real principles of certain Alechanics" Institutions :—  " At Brighton, too, it seems, the contagion has recently been spreading; the worthy chairman of the mechanics meeting there, was of opinion that every journeyman and labourer ought "to demand such wages as would support his wife and family, without their working at all; and those who could obtain employment for three months only, ought also to demand as much for that, time as would maintain them and their families in idleness all the rest of the year ! " So that the less work there is, the higher must be the rate of wages. At the Brighton meeting, we are told by the Gazette, that the Times was called for to support some reasoning employed by Air. Philips, who strove to bring the  operatives  to their senses ; but the Times was found to contradict so flatly the statements of the " Trades Nctrspawr" —[God forbid it should not)—that they would not listen to us. har hare got, we fear, some Casts among them—fellows who, like Cast, the destroyer of the Thames shipping trade, have been acquainted formerly with the Thisllewood Reformers, and have regularly harangued af their meetings. hey must be pat down, we say—with a strong hand nut down by the masters or there is an end of peace and property in Kngland ; for all these leagues are but embryo conspiracies, to be converted, when occasion serves, to politics, and politics of no honest end or character."  It seems from the Glasgow Chronicle that Air. Hume has addressed a letter to the Chairman of the Committee of Artisans in that town, declining lo make his proposed visit to Glasgow at present. He mean 3 to stand aloof for a while. If this meddling political coxcomb would keep aloof from the operatives altogether w» might expect some sp.vdy reformation in their habits.