MR. C. HALLES GRAND CONCERTS.  PROGRAMME.—Pakt I. Military Symphony In G (First time)Hafdri Aria—Mr. Sims Reeves •* Deh per questo " (Ciemenza dl Tite) R Mozart Dramatic Concerto, Violin—Mr. Carredus. ...Spohr Songs-Mr. Sims Reeves... {"Thl&S".:} Beethoven. Overture "Iphlgenla In Aulis" (First time) Gluck. Part 11. Overture "Oberon" Weber Scherzo and Finale, Pianoforte—Mr. Charles HaUe From " Pastoral Sonata " Beethoven, i Andante—Full Orchestra In A fiat Mozart. Ballad—Mr. Sims Reeves " The Last Rose of Summer " Grandeßhapsodie Hongroise, Pianoforte—Mr. Charles Halle,. .(First ! ime) Liszt. Overture "OtsUo" Rossini. he programme of Wednesday evening numbered j few pieces, and did not require a great amount of leiter| press, but it was not on that account any less attractive or | important than usual. he instrumental portion waß the i most interesting. It commenced with a symphony which has not b?n heard before at theee concerts, but one which we do not doubt we shall bear again, as it is one that well deserves repetition. Equally interesting was Spohrs dramatic concerto for the violin, which was exceedingly well played by Mr. Carrodus, who was loudly applauded at the conclusion. he first part concluded with the overture to Iphigenia in Aulis, not as Gluck wrote it in the opera, but with a substitution of several bars at the termination, so as to form a close in the full harmony of the key. In the second part, Mr. Halles admirable rendering of the movements from Beethovens pastoral symphony, and a " Grande Rhapsodic Hongroise," by the eccentric Liszt, rendered the pianoforte selection the most attractive; but the overtures, and most of all, the beautiful andante by Mozart, prevented any charge of insignificance being brought against the orchestral pieces. Mr. Sims Reeves was encored in "The stolen kiss," which he repeated; the same compliment was paid to his interpretation of the Irish ballad, but he declined to accede to the demand for its repetition. he last concert for the season of the Manchester Choral Society takes place next Wednesday, so that the next of Mr. Halles concerts cannot be given until the 21st, when Beethovena-grand symphony in D major will be performed, and Mr. Charles Halle will play Mozarts concerto in D minor, &c. he principal vocalist is to be Madlle. Euphrosine Parepa, who has been singing in London with th&s, greatest success.