RINGWOOD,  DRSTRUCTION 01PTR4;eESTY SY FinE.—Two cottagee,with a portion of their ou tbuildinge,have been destroyed by fire in this neighbourhood,within the last fortnight. hn first, which took fire on the rkh inst., was situated at Burley in the New Forest, and was the property of Mr. Louis Guy, of this town ; it was unoccupied at the time it was destroyed. Mr. Guy had but recently purchased the property. and it was undergoing repair at the time the occurrence took place. A policy of insurance had been effected in the Phoenix office by the late owner, which does nutexpire till Christmas, but which had not been transferred to the present owner. No cause can be assigned for the origin of the fire.—On the following Monday evening.another untenanted cottage, situated near Picked Post,and lately occupied by a person named William Cox, was also discovered to be on fire, and way completely destroyed before assistance could be rendered. here remains very little doubt that in both cases the fire was the act of au incendiary. HE VOLUNTARY SYSTEM —The offertory collections lately introduced by our visar for maintaining the services of our parish church are progressing favorably, the average amount during the last four Sundays being upwsnis of three pounds weekly, so that the sum required according to the estimate li produced by the churchwardeus for the annual expenditure. viz., £63, will, if the same voluntary spirit continues, be realised in about five or six months. his cannot fail to be a source of gratification to all who advocate a system that will serve to cement a better feeling amongst Christians of all denominations. INDERS INTERNATIONAL CIRCUS,--On Friday this company of artistes, better known as the Crystal Palace Circus. gave a morning and evening performance in this town, which was well attended on both occasions, that in the morning principally consisting of some hundreds of juveniles belonging to the public schools of this place, who were admitted by the kindness of the proprietors at a reduced price. he evening performance was thronged by a vast concourse of persona who expressed themselves highly gratified at the horsemanship and numerous gymnastic feats displayed, which were of a character that entitled them to the numerous plaudits with which each performance was greeted by those assembled.