CONSERVATIVE DINNERS.  Wakefield Operative Conservative Association—On Monday last, the members of this association met and dined together at the house of Mr. Joseph Patrick, the sign of the Shears, where a sumptuous dinner was provided. Mr. John Waterall presided with tact and ability; the usual Conservative toasts and songs went round in rapid succession ; able speeches were at intervals delivered, and the evening was spent with the utmost hilarity and good nature.— Leeds Intelligencer. Conservative Demonstration at Leeds, On Wednesday, a public dinner was given by the Conservative Burgesses of Leeds, to the Conservative members of the Leeds Town Council, in the Music Hall, Albion-street, which was very numerously attended, and proved to be one of the most enthusiastic and spirit-stirring assemblies that we have attended for sometime past. Mr. George Hirst, president of the Leeds Tradesmens Conservative Association, occupied the chair; the vice-chairman were Mr. E. J. ale, Mr. Yates, Mr. S. Cooper, and Mr. Wood. At the principal table, on the right and left of the chairman we observed Mr. Alderman Hall, Councillors Beckett, Hey, Hayward, Potts, Howard, Hunter, Lawson.and Dove, Thomas Blayds, Esq., T. E. Upton, Esq., Alexander Watson, Esq., and several other gentlemen. About 250 persons sat down to dinner.—Leeds Intelligencer. wkesbury Conservative Dinner—On Tuesday, one of the most numerous and respectable meetings of the constituency of the borough of Tewkesbury that can be remembered on any similar occasion, held a festival in the Assembly Room at the Town Hall, to celebrate the return of their tried and "approved good" member,William Dowdeswell, Esq. Mr. William Dowdeswell was in the chair, supported on his right by Sir A. Lechmere, Bart., and on his left by the Hon. Wm. Coventry. Among the company were J. W. Martin, Esq., Rev. George Turberville, E. G. Stone, Esq., Uvedale Price, Esq., Revs. A. Luders, A. B. Lechmere. R. L. Freer, R. Hepworth, F. Foxton, I. Prosser, J. Sermon, Esq., I. M. P. Hopton, Esq., J. E. Barnes, Esq., W. S. Evans, Esq., J. Moore, Esq., A. Sproule, Esq., and many other gentlemen of distinction. he vice-president of the centre table was A. Sutherland Graeme, Esq., and Messrs. Higginson and J. Petley filled the same office at the other two. he large room was completely filled, and it accommodates about 200; while in the adjoining one 40 more gentlemen sat down to dinner—Worcestershire Guardian.