CHURCHES AND CHAPELS.  he incorporated society for promoting the enlargement, building, and repairing of churches and chapels, held their nineteenth annual general committee on Friday week, at their chambers in St. Martins-place; the Archbishop of Canterbury in the chair. he Bishop of Durham, the Bishop of Winchester, the Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol, the Bishop of Hereford, the Bishop of Bangor, the Dean of Norwich, the Rev. Sir Henry Dukenfield, Bart., Lord Kenyon, and many other distinguished clergymen and laymen, were also present. he report of the committee stated that they felt great satisfaction and thankfulness towards the Giver of all Good in being able to announce that, during the past year, the society had exerted itself with undiminished activity and success. heir exhausted funds had been replenished to a degree even beyond their anticipations by the collections made throughout the country under the authority of the kings letter. All the returns had not yet been received, but those which had, had advised them of contributions to the amount of £34,000, which exceeded the collection under the same authority in 1834, by £3,000, and which was still more gratifying, as, during the last year, £116,000 had been subscribed for the erection of additional churches in the metropolis. During the last year 188 applications had been made, and the grants had been 108, both exceeding those of any former year, the latter by 35. he money granted had been £21,872, being £700 above any former year. he sittings granted had been 41,710, being 7,000 above any precedent; and of those 28,872 were free and unappropriated. he grants of last year were deemed particularly important, as while the society had contributed towards the increase of accommodation in many of the present churches they had contributed to the erection of forty-one additional churches and chapels, and the rebuilding of sixteen others. Contributions had been received from diocesan associations in Bath and Wells, Winchester, Exeter, and Cleveland, which were gratifying proofs of the increasing desire to relieve the spiritual wants of the people of the Church of England. AmjtJgst their contributions was the munificent sum of 18,000 from Mr. George Davenport, of Lime-street, London. Since their institution in 1818 the society had expended £220,731, thus insuring 354,925 additional sittings, of which 262,366 were free and unappropriated. he society, therefore, looked with joy to the past, and to the future with the confident hope that they might go on and prosper.