Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, AUGUST 17- , City, Two oClock.—The funds have remained steady all the morning. Consols are 7lii%, with limited business. he market has been well supplied with money stock. Exchequer bills are 1-1 13 pm. ; new four per cent. Scrip l.J pm—A considerable improvement may be quoted in the South American securities. Mexican Bonds are at present 46.4, buyers ; and (olombian 33.—The accounts received this morning, via Philadelphia, from La Guayra, are very good. he letters are dated from the latter place the 8d July. he price of Spanish Bonds is about 10!{, and Greek 13, rather buyers. In the remaining securites there is no material alteration.—The accounts from Manchester and Liverpool are very satisfactory ; and a general improvement has taken place in Colonia produce, in Mincing Lane, this morning. he intelligence from Portugal contained in the Paris papers last received, is of a complexion calculated, we think, to prepare us for some attempts, on the part of the disaffected, to oppose the introduction of the charter. In the northern province of Tras-os-Montes, according to a proclamation issued by the military governor, De Correa de Mello, dated the 22d ult., several arrests had taken place of the chiefs of those " criminal associations," which had been formed in opposition to the sovereign orders of the king. he same individual, in a despatch, addressed to the minister of war, states, that the 24th regiment of the line had had the audacity to arrest all its superior officers, and openly to rebel against the government. " I shall hasten," he adds, " to march against the rebels, with the faithful troops that remain in this province; but, meantime, it seems to me that it would be very advisable that your excellency should speedily dispatch a corps of troops towards this frontier." Viscount de Santa Martha writes, from his head-quarters at Braga, that he had ordered two regiments of infantry to march to Chaves, to support General Mello. he Viscount de Monte Alegre is at the head of the rebels. Orders have been sent out to all our colonies in the West Indies, to put in foTce the act of the 6th of the king, in respect to their trade with foreign countries. By that act, the ports of those colonies are to be closed against the vessels of such States as do not place British shipping, trading between thosecolonies aud such states, upon the footing of the most favoured nations. he United States of America have declined to place our shipping upon that footing in their ports ; and, in consequence, their ships will not be admited to entry, in our West India colonies, after the first of December next. he Allgemeine Zeitung to the llth inst. has been received this morning. It appears from an article, dated from the frontiers of Hesse, July 2*5, that the German States are carrying on a sort of tariff war, and imposing duties and counteracting duties on the various commodities in which they traffic. By this arrival we have no political news.