Foreign Intelligence.  India.—Tiie Gazette of Tuesday contains a copy of a letter from Sir James Brisbane, to the Secretary of the Admiralty, airing an account of the successful attacks by our co-operating military and naval force upon the enemys positions, in the neighbourhood of Prome, on the Ist and 2d of December. he result of the first operation was the complete overthrow of the enemys left column, consisting of 14,000 men, with the capture of their ordnance and the whole of the commissariat, and a heavy loss of men ; that of the second, the capture of the enemys positions, with the whole of their boats, amounting to about 300, and a number of guns, muskets, and a lart;e quantity of stores. We have received the Spanish paper, called the Comereo de los do* Manila*. It furnishes, under dateof Cadiz, April 1!, a singular article, which represents Bolivar to have hitherto abstained from invading Brazil, with the army of Sucre, on account of the danger in which the Creoles have been placed since the royal authority in those parts ceased to exist. he Indians, it is said, consider, now that the authority of the King of Spain is at an end, that things ought to return to their original state, and the country be placed under its native Incas. o effect this, it is added, they contemplate a general massacre of the Spaniards, and all who are descended from Spaniards. he Paris papers of Sunday, with the Etoile, dated 31 or.day, have arrived in due course They contain intelligence from Greece of so positive a character, that its authenticity can hardly be doubted ; and according to which 31 issolonghi has successfully withstood the attacks of the Egyptians under Ibrahim Pacha, after an obstinate and sanguinary contest. he details are given with great minuteness, and are extremely interesting : but we cannot find room for them this week. It seems certain that Ibrahim received a mortal wound, and the account of his death had been officially received at Corfu from Prevesa on the 4th April. hree Tartars were despatched to the latter place for surgeons, but beforethey could return with medical aid, this celebrated chieftain had expired. hese particulars do not rest upon one authority, nor are they derived front any single place ; but we find them concurrently given under the dates of Leghorn, Corfu, Zante, Trieste, Borne, Ancona, &c.