Foreign Intelligence.  Correspondence with the American Government on the Subject of the Slave Trade—A Diplomatic Correspondence of more than ordinary interest, has taken place between our Minister at Washington, and Mr. Clay, the American Secretary of State. his correspondence was communicated to the House of Representatives, by the President, on the 2/th Dec. and described in his message, as " copies of such correspondence between the United States and Great Britain, on the subject of the convention for suppressing the Slave Trade, as have not heretofore been, and which can be, communicated without detriment to the public interest." Our readers probably recollect that a convention was actually cr-ncluded between this country, and the Government of the United States, for the more effectual suppression of the Slave Trade, as fa! as such a measure could be completed on the part of the American Executive, subject to the ratification or non-ratification of the senate. Unfortunately, however, the latter body, (which, as Mr. Clay describes it, M is a component part of the Treaty-making power," vested in the Government of the United States), objected to certain words contained in the convention ; and, notwithstanding fresh negociations were carried on, with the expectation of overcoming the scruples of the senate, it appears their sentiments were so decided, that, in the opinion of the President, it " would be unnecessary and inexpedient any longer to continue the negotiation with any hope that it can be made to assume a form satisfactory to both parties." his intimation, which we most sincerely regret, is accompanied with the most anxious expressions of confidence on the part of the President, that what has occured will not be regarded by the British Government as emanating from the slightest impulse of any unfriendly disposition towards this country. Mr. Addington, in his reply, accepts these assurances in the most unreserved manner, on behalf of his own government. he whole correspondence, however, is exceedingly curious, and suggests considerations, especially in connexion with the similar fate of a convention, having the same object, which had been entered into with Colombia, and in which the objectionable words insisted upon by us, were waived, to which we may shortly recur Courier.