Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2M. he Quarters Re VEX HE—The Quarterly and Annual Accounts of the Revenue, which arc made up to this day, will not be completed till to-morrow, when we shall he enabled to lay them before our readers. Meanwhile, we have the satisfaction to state, that the expectations which were formed at the commencement of last year, of the produce of the Revenue, will be found to be amply realised. City, Two oClock Scarcely any thing has occurred this morning worthy of particular observation. Consols have been at 82J nearly all the morning; the quotation at present is 82jjA The Money Market retains its firmness. Exchequer Bills are"6 pm.; Reduced 82; Bank Stock 221; India Bonds 15 17.—A very great improvement has taken place in South American Securities. he fall of St. Juan dUlloa has produced the advance. Colombian Bonds were done at 68 A, and Mexican 72 ; they have since declined about 1 per cent; Brazillian Scrip is about 12 dis There is not so much doing to-day in Shares; the prices are without much variation. United Mexican are 12 pm.; Anglo .Mexican 10 pm Up to this hour there are no arrivals by express from Paris The Earl of Liverpool came to town yesterday morning frem his seat at Coombe Woood. he noble earl transacted business in the course of the morning with Viscount Melville, and others of the cabinet ministers. At half-past three oclock, the Governor and Deputy-Governor of the Bank of England arrived at his lordships residence at Whitehall, from the city, and had a consultation with his lordship and the Chancellor of the Exchequer about half an hour. Soon after which the noble earl left his residence in his chariot and four on his return to Coombe Wood. he commercial inlelligence received from New Ye. * yesterday, was of a yery gratifying nature, particularly as regards the merchauts of that city who were interested in the concerns of .Mr. Williams, of Finsbury-square. Innumerable are the instances in which this gentleman has been the promoter of the fortunes of his countrymen, who, much to their credit, have not had their confidence shaken in him, and have, in the handsomest manner, confided to him, and the responsible merchant who has joined him, Timothy Wiggen, Esq. all their concerns as heretofore