Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27. City/, Two oclock—The transactions in the funds are still limited to a few bargains, and those at rather lower prices than yesterday. Consols for the account have been done at 86?, and are now 86g£ ; exchequer bills 58s. to 60s, pm—By the arrival of the Blanche frigate from Rio, we have letters dated the lst Aug. ; their contents are far from satisfactory. It appears the treaty was not ratified, nor was there the least probability it would be. he president Rivadavia had been obliged to resign ; and, it was further stated, Lord Ponsonby had demanded his passports. he effect the above account had on Brazilian stock was a decline of 3 per cent. he Buenos Ayres bonds have scarcely varied Hopes are still entertained that an arrangement is in progress to pay the Mexican dividend—the bonds had at one time reached 511; but have since gone back above one per cent. here is no variation in the other securities The Brazil shares are not quite so high as yesterday. he accounts by this days arrival, are stated to be most favourable. he regular Turkey mail arrived this morning, in due course, but the communications brought by her have been anticipated by the former arrivals from Constantinople. he present mail brings the original mercantile letters, those previously received being the duplicates. he date is the 25th of August. We regret to state, that his majestys ship Blanche, from the Brazils, has brought unsatisfactory intelligence relative to the war between that government and Buenos Ayres. he negociations are at an end, andthe only hope of their being speedily renewed, appears to be in the poverty and anarchy of the Buenos Ayreans. Amongst the communications that we have seen this morning, is one from a high official source at Rio, which observes that the negociatious are entirely broken off-. he Slave Trade—The Brazilian Journal, under date of the 11th July, gives an interesting account of the proceedings in the chamber of deputies, on the convention between Great Britain and Brazil, for the abolition of the Slave Trade. Several members of that body were of opinion, that the loss of the Slave Trade, would be the ruin of Brazil, but others were decidedly opposed to this view of the subject, and zealously raised their voices to defend the generous policy of England. " I am not," said Senor Calmon, "the advocate of England, nor does the British government, now at the head of the civilization of the worldv need my praises or my defence. Public acts of philanthropy and love of liberty serve as unquestionable advocates for the glory of England,"