Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, MAY 17. City, Two oClock—Nothing has transpired in the course of the morning in the Money Market requiring remark. A slight improvement has taken place in Consols; they are at present {for this Account, and 83.j for July. Exchequer Bills 4!K to Ma. pm 1 The Foreign Market has been in a confused state, arising from many unfavourable reports respecting Mexico. hree Spanish Generals, and a Friar, had been arrested on suspicion of bein" concerned in revolutionary plans. he letters from the City of Mexico are dated the 30th March, but do not contain any thing of importance. he Stock opened at 68$, declined to C/i, anil is at present ■7j}. Colombian fell from 32 to 30, and at present remains at 31 The Continental Stocks remain nearly the same as last quoted. Portuguese 78 ; Russian 903 01; Spanish 12.J4 ; Greek 10 to 16.} An express has arrived from Paris. he prices of the rentes on Tuesday were—Five per cents. IOOf. 45c. ; Three per cents. 70f. 00c. In the House of Commons on Wednesday, Mr. Beaumont said that in consequence of a very general belief that important changes were about to take place in the cabinet, he would postpone the motion of which he had given notice until Tuesday next. here was no business of importance in either house of parliament last night. An interesting letter has to-day been received from Lima, via Mexico, dated sth of February, giving a description of the revolution in Peru, which we noticed the other day. It describes the feelings of the Peruvians as inimical to the Bolivian constitution ; somuch so that they have finally deposed Bolivar from the presidency of Peru. General Santa Cruz has been elected president, until the Congress of Peru could be assembled. he meeting of congress is fixed for the lst of May. his letter states, that the power of Bolivar, in Peru, has been completely overthrown. We have received Lisbon Gazettes, to the f!h inst. It appears by the bulletins of the physicians, that the situation of the Princess Regent of Portugal was far from satisfactory in the opinion of her physicians. Private letters, by the same conveyance, speak with very little confidence of the probability of her ultimate recovery. Her death, at this moment, would unquestionably be attended with many embarrassing consequences.