HE KING’S LETTER.  he following official document will be read with deep interest:— (copy) Whitehall, Dec. 18, 1826. My Lord,—l have the honour,, in obedience to the commands of his majesty, to transmit to your grace a letter signed by the king, authorizing your grace to take proper measures for promoting subscriptions within your graces province for the relief of the manufacturing classes in some districts of the United Kingdom. It is proposed that these subscriptions shall go in aid of those which have been entered into in the metropolis for the same benevolent and charitable purpose. 1 have accordingly to desire, in compliance with the terms of his majestys letter, your grace will take immediate steps for promoting the objects therein set forth. I have the honour to be, my lord, your graces most obedient humble servant, ROBERT PEEL. o the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, &c. &c. &c.  George R.—Most Reverend Father in God, our right trusty and right entirely beloved councillor. We greet you well ! Whereas the manufacturing classes, in some districts of the United Kingdom have suffered, and are still suffering severe distress ; and whereas many of our subjects have entered into voluntary subscriptions for their relief and have, at the same time, most humbly prayed us to issue our royal letters, directed to the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury and the Lord Archbishop of York, authorizing them to promote contributions within their several provinces for the same benevolent purpose, we, taking the premises into our royal consideration, and being always ready to give the best encouragement and countenance to such humane and charitable undertakings, are graciously pleased to condescend to their request. And we do hereby direct, that these our letters be communicated by you to the several suffragan bishops within you province, expressly requiring them to take care that publication be made hereof, on such Sunday, and in such places within their respective dioceses, as the said bishops shall appoint, and that upon this occasion the ministers in each parish do effectually excite their parishioners to a liberal contribution, which shall be collected the week following, at their respective dwellings, by the churchwardens or overseers of the poor in each parish, and the ministers of the several parishes are to cause the sums so collected to be paid immediately Into the hands of Messrs. Smith, Payne, and Smith, bankers, of our city of Loudon, to be accounted for by them, and applied to the carrying on and promoting the above-mentioned good designs. And so we hid you very heartily farewell. Given at our court at Windsor, the 16th day of December, 1826, in the seventh year of our reign. By his Majestys command, ROBERT PEEL. o the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, for a Collection in Aid of the Subscriptions, , entered into for the Relief of the Manufacturing Classes in the United Kingdom.