Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, APRIL 20. City, Two oclock—The transactions in the funds are to so trifling an extent as scarcely to deserve notice. Consols at 83£ for money, and for the account ; exchequer bills, 43s to 445. pm. —The intelligence received from Colombia this morning is of a very unfavourable complexion. Santander, the vice-president, is said to have tendered his resignation. he letters from Bogota are dated the 23th January, at which time nothing, of course, could be known of Bolivars resignation—The bonds have reached 3ftJ We have no letters yet from the Tweed. Mexican stock is also lower, viz. 70|. he continental securities are steady, and but little doing in them. Greek bonds are 1613 ; Spanish 12g—We have not heard ot any thing doing in the share market. Resignations seem to be the order of the day in the wew world, as well as in the old. he vice-president of Colombia, Santander, has (not in obedience to the example of his master, for he has taken the lead of him) resigned his office, in a letter tothe president of the senate received this morning from Bogota Bolivars resignation was dated at Caraccas the fith February, and could not be known in Bogota till the first days of March. hat of Santanders is in the Gaccta de Colombia of the 28th January. Of the motives of botli these resignations, lMconfess ourselves entirely ignorant. ime alone can devclaaa* w| the causes and the consequences of these movements. flj congress was expected to assemble by the 15th February. Not the least expectation is held out of remittances to England for the dividends.  he conclusion of Mr. Cannings negotiations with the Whig pat ty, which fte announced on Tuesday upon the faith of the journals of that party, has not yet arrived. he negotiations have not yet been broken off; but it is confessed that the prospect of their satisfactory termination becomes daily more doubtful—The only new appointments that have taken place, are the accession of Lord Dudley and Ward (a writer of sentimental novels, and parliamentary advocate for the whipping of negroes, male and female) to the foreign office; and the nomination of Mr. Scarlett to the office of Attorney Genera, over the head of Sir Nicholas Conyngham Tirdal [we give the learned gentlemans second name, because it has been of late studiously concealed in the paragraphs of the servile journals]. Sir Nicholas Conyngham. as the Courier has it. bending to the humiliation in the most "cordial and conciliatory" manner—a specimen of his pliability which will, of course, be duly appreciated by the members of the senate at Cambridge—ln the meanwhile, the meeting of parliament approaches, when Mr. Canning will have a task to encounter, all the difficulties of which no man yet sees, but which already presents difficulties, that, had they been obvious to the right hon. gent, a month ago, would, we are persuaded, have deterred him from the enterprise in which he has embarked. Lord Binning, Lord F. L Gower, and Lord Eliot, are to be the new lords commissioners of the treasury, in the room of -Mr. Robinson, Lord G. Somerset, and Viscount Lowuer.