DISTRESS IN THE ISLAND OF A CHILL.  Most of our readers are aware that on the island of Achill there exists a Protestant Missionary establishment, under the direction of the Rev. E. Nangle. It was instituted as a refuge for the persecuted Protestants in the west of Ireland, more particularly those who were converts from popery ; for such is the blood-thirsty and intolerant spirit of that damning heresy,—not only in this particular district, where it is especially predominant, but in all other places and at all other "times,—that it is only necessary for a person to hint his conversion from popery to Christianity, in order to get his brains beaten out, or maliciously injured to the extent of the power of his relentless popish persecutors. he priests in the neighbourhood too, have, under the most awful threats, forbid any persons under their influence from supplying any article of food to the Protestants in this establishment; and this, together with the scarcity of provisions which at present exists, has placed them in a most deplorable state of want. he following is an extract from an appeal from them to the Protestants of England, which we copy from the Achill Missionary Herald, a very excellent Protestant monthly newspaper : " Within this month, potatoes have been from sixpence to sevenpence per stone, and oatmeal £1 4s. per cwt. In consequence of the failure of our potato crop last summer, we have been for a long time purchasing provisions, which we were obliged to import as the system of exclusive dealing which the priests established, closed the market in this island against our people. his could not be done without a heavy expenditure. Our labourers receiving but eightpence per day, could not afford to pay more than twelve shillings per cwt. for the oatmeal, and we gave it to them at that price, when it was selling for £1 4s. m the market. Under these circumstances we are constrained to appeal to the Christian public for aid, and should more than suffices for the support of our own people be given us, we shall gladly employ tbe surplus in alleviating the distress of our poor neighbours [meaning their persecutors] by employing them m reclaiming our mission farm." . We trust our friends will not be unmindful of the wants of their suffering fellow-christians in the sister isle, but promptly lend their aid at this distressing crisis. We also hope our Conservative brethren will follow our example, in making known their condition, in every town in the kingdom. Subscriptions will be received at the Courier and Chronicle Offices, and at Mr. Pratts, Bookseller, Bridge-^reet.