AWFUL RESULT OF THE ARMING OF FEMALE CHARTISTS AT COOKER MOUTH.  It is known as a fact in Cockermouth, that the females who are members of the " Female Chartists Association" are so wretchedly infatuated as also to have armed themselves. heir weapons of offence are small daggers, about eight inches long, sharppointed, and barbed on both sides, which they are enabled to conceal about their persons. In consequence of these demonstrations the neighbouring magistrates held a meeting at Cockermouth, on Tuesday week, at which nearly the whole of the respectable inhabitants were sworn in as special constables, and an express was sent off to Carlisle for the military. On Friday evening, fifty privates, three sergeants, and a trumpeter, commanded by two officers, namely. Captain Carrie and Ensign Bingham, marched into the town, and took up their quarters at the Globe, tho Huntsman, and the Apple Tree Inns, to the no small joy of the peaceable inhabitants, and to the terror and discomfiture of the chartists, who have since remained in quietness.— Cumberland Pacquct. [These Cockermouth chartists are terrible wenches, indeed ! here are fifty privates, three sergeants, and a trumpeter compelled to come to the rescue of " nearly the whole of the respectable inhabitants," who have been most terribly bothered and obfuscated by the " weapons of offence " of these Amazons, viz., weapons "about eight inches long, .harp-pointed, barbed on both sides," (horrible) all of which they " conceal about their persons." We shrewdly suspect, however, that these Cockermouth lasses have bad some very different motive for this " demonstration," and that finding the Cockermouth boys dull at bacheloric, they have effected this ruse in order to bring down these " fifty privates, three sergeants, two officers," and oh! ye gods ! "one trumpeter :" only one trumpeter for all the female chartists in Cockcnnotith! Shade of Anthony Van Corlean! bow doth thy shadowy lips oerflow with ghostly water, as thou thinkest of the lucky trumpeter of Cockermouth ! We are strengthened in our opinion of the motives of these dames of Cockermouth by finding that since the arrival of the " fifty privates, three sergeants, two officers, and a trumpeter, at the Globe, the Huntsman, and the Apple Tree Inns," the female chartists " have remained in quietness." Requiescanf.]—Port of Tync Pilot.