MEETING OF THE SALFORD COMMISSIONERS OF POLICE.  A general meeting of this body took place on Wednesday evening, at the Town Hall, Salford. Between twenty and thirty gentlemen were present. John Leeming, Esq., the boroughreeve, presided. Mr. Cooke, the law clerk, laid before the meeting the accounts of the money which had passed through the commissioners hands since the last meeting, which were unanimously passed. A memorial to the postmaster-general, deprecating the removal of the Manchester post-office from its present site, was then submitted to the meeting. Mr. Bateman, in moving its adoption, stated that the committee appointed to draw up the memorial had waited on the Manchester committee, and had learnt that the principal objection to the proposed new site was the narrowness of the alley by which access would be had to the post-office, and "the consequent want of light ► and that the Exchange committee had promised to remedy this inconvenience. hey had also waited on the " Town Clerk," but could not learn from him anything definite as to the intentions of the "council." Most of the gentlemen present afterwards attached their names to the memorial. Mr. Livingstone drew attention to the great nuisance occasioned by persons driving cattle on the foot paths, on the market day; and moved that placards, giving notice of the penalty for this offence, should be posted. After a short discussion this was agreed to. Mr. Gandal said he perceived a statement in the London papers that Mr. Brotherton had been presenting a petition from Salford, praying for the establishment of bonded warehouses. He wished to inquire if any one knew anything about it.—No one being able to give any information, it was concluded that the name of Salford had been inserted by mistake. After the transaction of some routine business, Mr. Lockstt said he had a motion of some importance to bring forward. It was as follows:—" That as the borough of Manchester is now incorporated, and as the town of Salford will consequently be relieved from contributing to the salary of the stipendiary magistrate, it is the opinion of this meeting that great convenience will arise to the inhabitants of Salford by having their daily business, which is usually transacted at the New Bailey, done at the Salford Town Hall." hose who had served the office of overseer well knew the inconvenience complained of. here would also be a saving of expense by the alteration, as many respectable solicitors would take the office of clerk for the fees. here would be no difficulty in getting the county magistrates to attend there ; they had already expressed their willingness to do so.  Mr. Gandal thought they ought to have an estimate of the cost of the alteration, before passing the resolution.  After a brief discussion, the resolution was agreed to ; ami Messrs. Frost, Gibb, Cheshire, Lockett, and Hodgetts, along with the boroughreeve and constables, were appointed a committee to take the necessary steps for effecting the alteration.