(FROM OUR PRIVATE CORRESPONDENT.)  London, Friday Morning, April 12. I am happy to say that as Lord John Russells motion draws nearer and nearer, the hopes of the whigs decay. It appears now not only that Sir Robert Peel will meet the motion by an amendment, but also that several of the radicals, though not in earnest in their threats of opposing the ministry, really do intend to refrain from voting. he names of those who will absent themselves are understood to be Mr. Grote, Mr. Leader, Sir William Molesworth, Mr. Swynfen Jervis, Mr. Fielden, and Mr. Wakley; and to these some persons add the names of Mr. Harvey, Mr. Duncombe, Mr. Hume, General Johnson, and Mr. Williams, of Coventry. But I believe no greater secession can be expected than six or seven members, and even then ministers, it is said, will not have a majority of more than ten, or twelve at the utmost? and if this be gained, their troubles, instead of ending, will but commence. hey are certain of defeat on the Irish railway job; they must withdraw their city police bill; their Canadian measure promises to rival Lord Durhams report in its radicalism, and, consequently, in the present House of Commons, lias no chance of success; and their education scheme has parts which will be vigorously and triumphantly resisted. heir only course, therefore, is to try and patch up the cabinet in the manner I stated last week, and it that fail, as it certainly will, then to resign. hree months is generally thought to be the longest time they can prolong their miserable existence.  You w ill, doubtless, notice how totdlv they are deprived of sympathy in all parts of the country. Even the town councils they themselves created are silent. In Edinburgh, the only place where a temonstration in their favour was attempted, the meeting w as swamped by radicals, who expressly condemned the ministerial policy. Where, then, can they look -or aid ? Why, to Ireland alone, and to the repealers there. Elsewhere they have no friends and no power. " How the mighty hath fallen!" he" death of Sir John Dunlop, the whig member for Ayrshire, has occasioned a vacancy in the representation of that county, and I rejoice to hear that the conservatives who, at the last election, were beaten by nearly 200, speak with confidence o: carrying their candidate. If so, the whigs may contemplate a very gratifying picture in the prospects of :he next general election. Verily, they will have their reward. Nothing of interest besides the constant reports and rumours about the debate on Monday is stirring in town; and, doubtless, next week the eiiscussion itself will render all things else equally Hat. I understand the division is not expected till Wednesday. If it occur on that day, I will send you in m\\ next letter an analysis of the division, showing the number of placemen, ho. who voted.