ANNIVERSARY PROCESSION OF SUNDAY SCHOOL CHILDREN.  Monday last, being Whit-monday, the usual procession of the children taught in the Sunday Schools connected with the establishment, took place". Soon after eight oclock in the morning, they began to assemble in St. Anns-square, the places to be occupied by each school being denoted by boards with tho names of the schools painted on them". he morning being delightfully fine, a vast concourse of persons was drawn together to witness the pleasing spectacle, and every window which commanded a view of the square was crowded with fair spectators. At nine oclock, the whole of the children, to the number of upwards of five thousand, having arrived, the procession moved towards King-street, in the following order :— The Police Beadles of Manchester and Salford. he Manchester Borough Band. he Boroughreeve and Constables of Manchester. he Very Rev. the Warden and the Fellows of the Collegiate Church. he Hon. and Rev. Horace Powys and other Clergymen. he Churchwardens and Sidesmen of Manchester. he Scholars, Each School headed by the Clergymen of the district, and the Visitors and Conductors, in the following order:— Collegiate Church Sunday School: Trinity Chapel, Salford; St. Anns; St. Marys; St. Pauls, Nos. 1, 2, and 3, Bennett-street; St. Pauls, Germanstreet; St. Jamess; St. Johns; St. Peters; St. Michaels; St. Stephens,Nos. 1 and 2 ; St. Georges, Nos. 1 and 2; All Saints; St. Matthews; Sr. Andrews ; and St. Judes. he route pursued was from St. Anns-square, up King-street,through York-street, Mosley-street, M-.-r-ket-street, Old Millgate, to the Collegiate Church, where they arrived a little after ten oclock. It being impossible to accommodate the whole of the children, about 2,200 were admitted to the church ; the remainder returned to their respective schools, and were treated with buns, &c. he Very Rev. the AVarden read the morning service, and an excellent sermon was preached by the Hon. and Rev. Horace Powys. rector of AVarrington, from Ecclesiastes, eh. vii. 12 v. "For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence ; but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it." he collection amounted to £56 2s. Od., being £4 ss. 6d. more than that of Last year.