DISCOVERY OF A RIBBON SOCIETY IN BELFAST.  (From the Dublin Evening Packet). Such is the heading of the subjoined paragraph, which we copy from the Belfast Commercial Chronicle of yesterday. he announcement, however, though of a nature sufficiently alarming, will, we are persuaded, surprise no person practically acquainted with the actual condition of Ireland at the present moment. he Ribbon conspiracy has, it now appears, extended itself through the length and breadth of the island. No portion of the country is free from the pernicious contagion. Even in the extreme north, hitherto the abode of peaceful industry, the monster has dared to raise its baneful head. Let us hope, however, that it has only showed itself to ensure a speedy and effective crushing by the magisterial authorities. he measures already taken, to bring about a Consummation so devoutly to be wished for, afford an assurance that the evil may be blasted in its bud. Meanwhile, what will the sneerers at Captain Rowans evidence before the Lords committee say on this discovery ? Is the Belfast, affair, also, a mere chimera is it, too, one of your so-called " Tory inventions" ? Let the following circumstantial statement answer the question:— " Belfast.—On Saturday afternoon a considerable degree of surprise and excitement prevailed in the town, by the arrest of a man named Houston, who keeps a public-house in Mill-street, opposite the Distillery, and where, it is alleged, a Ribbon lodge held its meetings. he magistrates having had private information on the subject, proceeded with a strong police force to Houstons, accompanied by a military detachment. Mr. Molony, our active police magistrate, immediately went up stairs, and made a seizure of several locked-up boxes of papers, books, and other docu ments, connected with this unlawful association, and with the landlord conveyed them all to the house of correction, without resistance. he examination of Houston, and the investigation ofthe papers, will probably develop the extent of this secret society. We regret to find that our town has been disgraced by the existence of a Ribbon association; we trust that the conspirators will be made an example of and the country get rid of the dangerous body."