GREECE.  HE MINISTERIAL CRISIS.  -\\ 2 .*»•*■ h. "* JAKE»s, Nov. 23. it* hem** ati.ur« of ttie country ate bee ming more and more complicated, and it is difficult to Ibkmc <a neai auu satishtctory solution. iiree ministers have succeeded one another since the 2fsth ult., ami Greece is still without an a (ministration It is unnecessary to say how prejudicial this position of affairs is to the country at large. Urreasimse is general, trade languishes, the provinces are in a more disturbed state than ever, and Ac Treasury is at a low *>bb. he Bulgaris Mioisty, formed upon the 15th inst., only «xi«ed 24 hours. In the morning of the 17th the Premier sent in his resignation to the King in the following terms :— Sire,—The finances of the country and public security, two vital elements of general prosperity, are, according to the unmr«al opinion, in bo deplorable i state that they retfnire serious reform and profound study. My chief care, therefore, has been to occupy myself with these important questions : but a short space of time was requisite to allow •f the government arriving at a satisfactory result. his was further necessitated by the great number of motions pending in the chamber, some of which, although of opposite tendencies, bore upon the important question • i the assimilation of the lonian Islands. It was in consideration of these points and of the responsibility I have undertaken towards your Majesty and the nation that I asked for the close of the first session of the first legislative period, as the budget for 1805 has been already voted, and for the convocation of the chamber, in couItirTuity with the.constitution, in the course of January aut, in order that the budget for ISoOand the financial bills ■light be voted m good time. It appeared to me chat this purely governmental measure, which is in no way opposed to the constitution and to constitutional usages, was calculated to pfeo.-e the government in a position to respond to your Majestys wishes and to the hopes of the nation. I regret that j our Majesty, in your wisdom, has not thought fit to honour your government with this simple mark of your royal confidence. Considering that, in so short a space of time, my advice has not been found suffi:ient by tfce crown, and conformable to the interests of thecouatiy, I have the honour to place my resignation, together with that ef my colleagues, in your Majestys hands. Deign, we, to consider me as your Majestys faithful servant, D. Bulgaria. Such was the ostensible reason for tbe resignation of the Bulgaria eabiuet ; but the real cause was that, like his predecessor, Deligeorgis, M. Bulgaria was unable to command a Parliamentary «»ajority. Upon tbe resignation of M. KoumounW euros, overthrown by a combination of tbe Bulgaris and Deligeorgis party, the king again invited M. Bulgaris to form a cabinet, but, notwithstanding his having recently held office, that statesman new refused upon the plea of advanced age.