DAMAGE DONE DURING THE LATE RIOTS.  Yesterday an inquiry took place in the Manor Court Room, before T. B. Addison, Ksq.. assessor, and a Sheriffs Jury, to ascertain the amount of damage done to the property of various individuals in this town, during the riots in the beginning of .May last. he persons claiming compensation, are Mr. Whittaker, as trustee for the late Mr. Marshall, the owner of the factory occupied by Mr. Parker, in Dyche-street, St. Georges-road; .Mr. Parker himself, Mr. Guest, Mr. Harbottle, and Mr. wiss. he first case which came on was that of Mr. Whittaker, who claimed compensation for the destruction by fire, of the factory occupied by Mr. Parker, on the 4th of Way, and for the damage done by the fire to a number of cottages adjoining the factory. .Messrs. t ourtenay and Brandt appeared as counsel for the claimant, and Mr. Aglionby for the hundred. Mr Birchall also attended on behalf of tbe county. he sum claimed by .Mr. Whittaker was £3090. After an opening address by Mr. Courtenay, in which he explained the law under which the hundred becomes liable for damage committed by riotous mobs, six witnesses were called to prove the value of the buildings, and the amount of damage sustained. he claimants case having been gone through, Mr. Aglionby addressed tbe jury, on behalf of the hundred, and commented upon the evidence brought forward iv support of the claim. He then called Mr. BeUhOuse, jun. and Mr. R. Lane, both of whom had surveyed the premises, and whose joint estimate of the damage committed, fell short of the sum claimed by £340. he assessor, in summing up the case, expounded the law to the jury, and after reading over and commenting on the evidence, left it to them to say what sum ought to be awarded. he jury after consulting together for about a quarter of an hour, awarded to the claimant the sum of £2050. he inquiry lasted from ten oclock in the morning until nearly five in the afternoon. he court then adjourned until this day, when it will resume its sittings for the hearing of the other cases, in the grand jury room in the New Bailey.