he Bishop of Salisbury is a little better. On Saturday the bulletin said :—" The Bishop of Salisbury has had a better night, and his condition is more satisfactory." Yesterday morning his lordship was said to have had a favourable night, and was in other respects the same. Suicide by a Gentleman in Bt. Jamess Park. On Sunday morning, between four and five oclock, a gentleman shot himself in the Mall, St. Jamess Park, nearly opposite Marlborough House. hs police on duty, hearing a report ot rirearma, went to the spot, and found a gentleman lying on the gravel path in the avenue next to the carriage road. here was a revolver in his right hand, and the mark of a bullet on the right side of the head left no doubt as to the cause of death. From inquiries and search, it appear th it his name is Christian Gwinnear ; he is apparently b.-t w, a thirty-five and forty years of age, with full bear ! and moustache, having the appearance of a German. Ha was exceedingly well dressed, with two coats on, dark trousers aide spring boots, and speckled silk socks, his linen mario. " C.G.," and the shirt in addition having the number " o " He had a small sum of money in his pocketa. he Deajt kOK Exeter on Ritualism.—On Sunday forenoon, at the Exeter Cathedral, the Very & v Dean Boyd delivered a discourse on the errors of rituaUs-n which, he said, was the religion of the anoiens Pharisees. His text was Mark vii,, 15. ue rituaLUtj, he said, gave strange interpretations of tha obscor mysteririd of symbolism; they advanced reasons £wt»y a church tower should be built square, why the spire should point upwards, why the presence of the Redeemer could not be found amongst His people unle-there were two lighted candles upon the communion table. Symbolism had passed into Bupsrstition Eiror permeated the minds of the Pharisees they passed from the religion of spirituality to the religion of ceremony and scepticism, and they scrupk j not toprit aside Gods commandments. So it was iv the present day. Jubt in proportion as men leaned upon ceremonies so far they forsook religion. Men were anxious for an easy way ot being religious. Going through certain ceremonies they hope! hereby to obtain salvation, thus setting aside all the behests of Christianity with al its heart discipline. Leaving ipirituality, they content with an easy lire of ceremony. o mistake oor-smony for religion was . nl. to mistake bodily exercise for spiritual emotion. Instci-d of putting value on ceremonies, l*t tnem in Gods name p «y the inward homage of the heart to God. Let tliem not ina*one God could be ditpei s 1 *-ith because He aprroached them by the means of ord nances,