CORN MARKETS.  CARLISLE, BtTWEDA.T.—A good supply of wheat, fair of oat\\ and small of barley. Wheat met a fair demand at slightly under last weeks rates. Oats and barley slow of «ale, bit not lowar. COhK, Satbkdat.—White wheat, Bs. 6d. to lis. 6d.; red ditto ts. to 10s. 6d.; barley, 9s. 2.1. to 9s. 6d.; black oats, 7s. lOd, to 3s. 4.1.; tawney Bs. 3d. to Bi. Bd.; oats. Bs. 4d. to 9s. 6d. GLOUCESTER, Satwrdat.—A good supply of KnglUb. wheat, and, except for the finest samples, prices declined Is. per ijutrter. A better demand for foreign, at a reduction of Is. Grinding barley Is. te> 3s. per quarter cheaper. Maize, and oats Tery a .il of sale. MALTON, Saturday. he whe.it trade continues slow, and the easiness lone is below the last market in price. Barley and oats are 1b h as supply and firm. NEWCAbTLE Hatwrdat.—A large deliTery of wheat from the growers, which sold at last Saturdays rate". South country and foreign descriptions in limited request at Is. reduction. No change in oats. Beans and peas la. lower. Grinding barley la cheaper. Flour •low of sale at 6d. decline. NORWICH, Saturday.—A fair supply of wheat, demand qniot, sad holders in most cases had to submit to a little decline to do business. A moderate show of barley, for which a limited inquiry took place, and the currenoie* of this day 3ennight could not be Obtained. Oats stationary. Not much doing in beans or peas. NOTTINGHAM, Satukday.—Market tolerably supplied with wheat, which met a slow sale at prices in buyera farour. Not much pasesng in barley ; prices without material alteration. Oats an ararax" ■uppiy. at last weeks prices. scantj ; prices unchanged.Sjlcas a dnll trade it recent currencies. . .itaf PETERBOROUGH, Satbrdat.—Whe»t flat, at a little under last weeks prices. Barley sold slowly at nearly late rates. A fair show of oats, and seed sorts maintained their former ralue. Beans a snriU afcow, and beery at last weeks prices. PRESTON, Satwrdat.—A small supply of wheat, which sold freely st the full prices of last week. No change hi dour. Bsans •ought after for s. Ed, and the torn doarer. Oats bring former prices, bant oatmeal is depressed, and rath&r lower. No change iv Indian WISBECH, Saturdat.—Prices for wheat hardly so good as laa1; week; the supply moderate. Barley was not much in demand ; prices rather lower. Oats about the usual supply, and prices stationary. Beans scarce, at recent currencies.