HE CONDEMNED MURDERESSES.  wo women at the present time lie under sentence of death—the one in the metropolis, the other at Glasgow. For Catherine Wilson, the convicted poisoner, who now lies in Newgate, there is no sympathy ; and with the exception of a memorial presented to the Home Minister by the solicitor who defended her at the trial, we believe no effort has been made to save her from the gallows. he sheriffs have fixed Monday, the 20th inst., for the execution, in front of the Old Bailey. here seems no hope of any respite being granted in her favour. With her sister convict at Glasgow the case is different. he story that was read on her behalf after her conviction, and charging the murder of which she was found guUty on old Mr. Fleming, has made an immense sensation, and all Scotland is now eagerly engaged in canvassing the truth of her statement, on which rests the question whether she was the actual murderess or only an accessory after the fact. Sir George Grey has respited her to the lst of November, to allow time for a searching investigation into the womans story, which of course was not before the jury when they found her gudty. he Glasgow Herald says : — " We understand that the investigation into this case, which commenced last week by the orders of the Lord Advocate, as it is understood—before Sir Archibald Alison and the Fiscal —still continues, but as to the exact nature of it, how it is tending, and when it is likely to close, we have not any information. It would appear that this calamity is not to be confined to the persons who were the immediate agents in it. It is producing insanity of the most furious kind, and already some half dozen persons, male and female, have been lodged in Gartnavel, who have gone mad on the sensation diet with which they have been surfeited during the last fortnight. hey all hold, we believe, that old Fleming should be hanged right off, and that Jessie MLachlan should go free. On Monday, one gentleman got so wild in his efforts to gather evidence wliich should consign old Fleming to the gibbet, that his friends were obliged to send him to tbe asylum." We understand that Mr. Murray, W.S., Edinburgh, the agent for the Crown, was in Glasgow, and had a consultation with the authorities here on the subject of the method of conducting the investigation, and we believe the result of their deliberations was the issuing of a peremptory order upon the agents of the prisoner to furnish the Crown authorities with information as to what points in the convicts " statement" they are prepared to substantiate, aud the list of the witnesses whom they mean to adduce for that purpose. his begins the inquiry at the proper end. It not only gives the prisoners agents an opportunity of presenting her case in the strongest possible light, but it must necessarily remove any ground of dissatisfaction against the Crown, or their method of conducting the inquiry, on the part of those who have any faith iv the prisoners innocence. —Scotsman.