ECCLESIASTICAL.  PREFERMENTS AND APPOINTMENTS. Allnutt, Rev. R. L, to be Incumbent of St. Stephen, Tunbridge. Bathurst, Rev. W. D. M., to Heckfield V., Hants. Evans, Rev. F., 8.A., to Lknstead Magna P.C., Suffolk. Gibbon, Rev. W. W., M.A., to Wapley with Codrington V., Gloucestershire. Lee. Rev. W. M., to be Incumljent of Sandown, Isle of Wight. he rectory of Steeple Aston, near Woodstock, has become vacant by the death of the Rev. Joseph Burrows, 8.D., who was instituted in 1832. he benefice, which is worth £600 a year, is in the gift of the Principal and Fellows of Brasenose College, Oxford. he Deanery of Gloucester.—This important office in the church, which recently became vacant by the death of the Hon. and Rev. Dr. Rice, has been offered to the Rev. Dr. Jeune, Master of Pembroke College and ViceChancellor of the University of Oxford. he reverend gentleman has declined the appointment. Diocese of Grahamstown.—The bishop has appointed the Very Rev. John Mcc, M.A., of Christs College, Cambridge, Dean of Grahamstown ; the Very Rev. N. J. Merriman, Archdeacon of Grahamstown ; the Yen. H. Ketton, Archdeacon of British Kaffraria ; and the Worshipful J. Barrow, chancellor of the diocese, canons of the Cathedral Church of St. George, Grahamstown. he Ecclesiastical Commission.—The Select Committee appointed by the House of Commons to inquire into the present state of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and report whether the ecclesiastical revenues could not be more advantageously administered for the interest of the Church, have now reported to the House. hey have held numerous meetings, and taken evidence upon various branches of the inquiry submitted to them. " They have not," however, "acquired sufficient information to enable them to pronounce a decisive opinion upon all the questions brought under their notice. here are also some other questions which may require investigation." hey therefore content themselves with reporting the evidence to the House, and recommend the re-appointment of the committee at the commencement of the ensuing session.