DESTRUCTION OF A FUSTIAN MILL IN SALFORD.  A four-storeyed brick building, formerly used as a cotton mill, and one of the oldest structures of its class in Salford, was last night destroyed, and its valuable contents consumed by fire. It is situated in Cable-street, and was in the occupation of Messrs. Henry Williams and Co., fustian finishers. he premises were stocked with goods to the value of upwards of £20,000. Considering the inflammable nature of the stock, it is not surprising that the fire should have spread with alarming rapidity. Behind, and adjoining, are the extensive factories of Messrs. Higgin, machinists, which were at one time seriously endangered. Had the the broken out in the night, it is believed that the whole range would have been destroyed. here was another difficulty of immense importance,— the want of a sufficient supply of water. It is said, also, that there was a hit eh in connecting one of the pipes, which occasioned a delay of nearly half an hour. Be that as it may, Mr. Atherton—who with his brigade was quickly on the spot—after receiving the announcement, found it necessaiy to despatch a messenger to Manchester for an additional supply. his occasioned a further detention. Flames will not stop. he fluffy material used in the manufacture of fustian is somewhat akin to gun cotton. Once a-fire it spreads rapidly. So it was in this case. A man named Batty had to escape by a window on the third storey— where the fire broke out—nobody knows how—and in trying to descend by means of "a piece" which he had thrown out, he fell, and sustained severe injuries. he flames spread rapidly upwards and downwards until the whole building was enveloped in fire. From the first there appeared to be no hope of saving the premises, but a portion of the stock was rescued. he flames raged furiously. ons of water from the engines flooded every part of the ignited structure; but each jet seemed to add fuel to the fire. he flames sped quickly to the topmost story, and licked the walls with their fiery tongues. Presently the roof fell in with a dreadful crash; and floor after floor came toppling down in horrid confusion, making the night hideous with the dreadful glare and the multitudinous sparks which shot across the darkened sky. A multitude gathered to witness the sight It was soon over. Little remained for the spectator but wet feet, obstructive policemen, damp-looking firemen in glazed helmets and with glistening lanterns, by the light of which the smoking ruins could be discerned steaming forth clouds of vapour in the dank night atmosphere. An engine came from Manchester under the direction of Engineer King; and the Broughton volunteers, under Captain Drew, also proffered their assistance. he premises are gutted. Some cottage property adjoining was endangered, but was saved by the exertions of the firemen under Mr. Atherton: and excepting some damage to the premises of Messrs. Higgin, by water, the loss will be confined to Messrs. Williams, whose stock, we understand, is insured.