HE EFFECTS OF ON THE PEOPLE OF INDIA.  he following letter relates to the effect produced on the population of the Punjab by the recent opening of the railway :— "«ir_\\s attention is now directed to the reported political movements in Central Asia, near our northwestern frontier, it may be interesting to remark on the striking moral effect produced on the border population by the recent opening of the railway between Lahore and U^ltSwas determined in the first instance to construct and open for traffic the most inland section of the Punjab railway, under the impression that from the line connecting two such places as Lahore and Umritsur, one the seat of government, and the other the sacerdotal and commercial capital of the Sikhs, not only great pecuniary results would at once be shown from the extent of the existing traffic, but that the sight of a locomotive actually at work in that remote region would impress the inhabitants tof the Punjab and neighbouring countries with new ideas of our power and . "From official and private letters received by the last mail, it would appear that these expectations are about being reabzed in a remarkable manner. "The conviction appears to be, that not only India in general will undergo a complete change through the extension of railways,  but that more especially tiie various nations and races of the Punjab, as well as the semi-barbarous tribes that girdle its frontier, will speedily succumb to the civilizing influence of steam, if we may be permitted to augur such a result from what has been daily witnessed during the short period in which the railway has been in operation. "The natives of all classes and races assembled in crowds to witness the performance of the locomotive,  John Lawrence. Some eagerly contend for seats in tho carriages without regard to the amount of fare or nature of the accommodation, while the spectators assume a wonderstruck and submissive demeanour, as if in the presence of a superior power, or a race of men against whom, in future, it would be vain to contend. * " So marked has been the impression on the inhabitants of the Punjab, that an additional reason has been thereby afforded for pressing the extension of tho railway to Delhi as speedily as possible. "I am, &c, "May 29. "W. P. ANDREW."