WATERWORKS COMMITTEE.  Alderman Booklet moved the adoption of the minutes of this committee, which had approved of accounts amounting to £760 IGs. 9d., caused principally by the laying pipes to connect Swineshaw with Tom Bottom.—Councillor Cooke seconded the motion, which was carried.  GENERAL PURPOSES COMMITTEE. At a meeting held on the 27th of July, it was resolved that the Town Clerk take an opinion on the desirability or otherwise of adopting the Baths and Washhouses Act; that the chairman. Aiderman Mason, and Councillor Thomas be a sub-committee to look out suitable sites and select plans for public baths; and that Messrs. Pauli and Robinson, architects, of Manchester, be invited to meet the committee on Wednesday afternoon, the sth instant.—Alderman Galt moved, and Councillor Sutcliffe seconded, the adoption of the minutes.—Councillor Cooke said some time ago he brought forward the subject of Sunday burials at the cemetery, but gave way on the understanding that the rules drawn up by the committee should be tried for twelve months. hat time having now expired, he wished to know whether any alteration was going to take place.—Councillor Wilson complained that no notice had been given of the recent visit of her Majesty’s commissioners to inquire into the condition of the River Tame. Several gentlemen had spoken to him about it, and said they should have been glad to appear to give evidence on the subject. He thought they were in duty bound to allow any gentleman to appear before the commission who thought fit, but there had not been the least warning, either by circular or in any other mode.—Alderman Galt said the meeting was only a preliminary one, prior to an inquiry that was to be held, at which everybody who felt interested in the matter might attend. It was merely to ascertain where Ashton was, and the situation of the river.—The Mayor said only twelve hours’ notice was received of the visit of the commissioners, so that he had to whip up a few gentlemen as best he could, without any discourtesy to anyone.—Councillor Cooke reminded Alderman Galt that he had not answered his question as to whether it was intended to make any alteration respecting Sunday burials at the cemetery.—Alderman Galt said he did not know of any; he was not the committee, but only a member of it.—The minutes were then confirmed.