variety of fish half a century ago. Sturgeon were caught at "Warrington, while between that town and Liverpool, and on the coast, an almost endless variety of shellfish were to be found. he rivers were well stocked with fish ; and even the Irk, now known as the inky river at Manchester, was remark;.b e for its eels, which were so fat that few people could eat them. In 1811 the number pf inhabite 1 houses in the county was 142,035; families 162,913; male persons, 383,787; females, 426.752 ; families employed in agriculture, 21,893 ; employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 113,744; total population, 810,539 persons. he following is the description of STALYBRIDGE IN 1818.  Staleybridge is situated about a mile and a half from Ashton-under-Lyn«, and has a good stone bridge across the Tame. A little below it is another, erected by the John Astley, Esq., of Hukinfield, for tho convenience of his estate. he place is now a very large and extensive, village, the houses well built, some of stone, but the greatest part of brick. On an adjoining eminence stands an octagon chapel of the Church of Engin which is an organ. Some part of the village is situated on the Cheshire side of the Tame, but the most considerable part is in Lancashire, in a continued street of nearly a mile in length, well paved. he principal part of the village, including the chapel, has been built within the last forty years. his place has been famous, for a great length of time, for carrying on the different processes of woollen cloth manufacture, which commences in this neighbourhood, and extends in various directions towards Saddle worth. Here is an old hall, long in the possession of a family ef the name of Kenworthy, by whom the clothing business was principally conducted ; the chief support of the place has, of late years, been the cotton trade, the spinning and manufacturing of which is now carried on very extensively, and is rapidly increasing.  Staley Hall is situated on an eminence on the Cheshire side of the Tame, at some distance above Staley-bridge. It is the old family seat of the Staleys, and is a loomy, spacious house, with extensive barns and stables of modern date, strong and well built with stone. It is now a farmhouse, inhabited by Mr. Leebridge, and has very extensive possessions belonging to it, bordering on the Yorkshire moors. he turnpike road from Staley-bridge passes this hall into Yorkshire, and the canal from Ashton runs along this valley by the side of the Tame.  A little above Staley Hall, on the Lancashire side of the Tame, stands Scout Mill, a place well known to the surrounding neighbourhood from its very rural and highly romantic situation. he mill is now used for the purposes of cotton manufacture ; the road leading to it branches off from the turnpike road near Mossley, by a long and steep descent.