HE STALYBRIDGE “EMPORIUM.”  * 4 During the last year two shops have been erected in Melbourne-street by Mr. Napoleon Ives, who give them the above name. On Thursday evening the workmen employed thereon, and others, to the number of forty, sat dowu to a spread of geese, turkey, and other good things, at the house of Mr. Bray, Dog and Partridge, Market-street. Afterwards Mr. Napoleon Ives, who paid for the dinner, occupied the chair, and Mr. Haigh France the vice-chair.  he Chairman, in his opening remarks, said they had assembled in accordance with a good old custom, which brought together all who had been engaged in the erection of buildings. It was one which had been almost extinguished, but he had always thought if ever it should be his fortune to erect any building, he would give a supper to the workmen engaged in its erection. After complimenting the workmen on having done their duty to the two shops, he alluded to the dangers connected with the building trade from the excavator to the slater, and said that no buildings in town surpassed those which had led to that night’s gathering in drainage and other sanitory arrangements. Every aperture was properly trapped, an important considei ation, seeing that the medical men of all large towns declared that the great causes of disease were impure water and unwholesome stenches. Another important matter ip connection with houses was baths, without which no home could be considered complete. He had, therefore, erected baths in each of the shops, which could be supplied with either hot or cold water. In conclusion, he proposed the toast of “ The Queen,” and said he hoped she might live long to reign over them, and that her future might be as bright if not more brilliant than the past. he toast was received with musical honours. Mr. Joseph Turner proposed “The Prince and Princess of Wales, and the rest of the royal family,” after which Mr. Chabnock gave, with an appropriate address, “The Army, Navy, and Volunteers.” He said Englishmen were proud of their army and navy, and often referred to their deeds in the most patriotic language. He felt sure that if the services of the volunteers should be required, they would worthily emulate the deeds of old. In conclusion, he gave a composition of his own, entitled “Defence, not defiance.” he toast was well received, the Chairman speaking very highly of the volunteers of the country, and pointing out that, if properly managed, they would very much tend to a decrease in the annual military and naval expenditure of the country. Mr, Henbt Jeffreys proposed “Prosperity to the town and trade of Stalybridge, with a few appropriate remarks. After it had been duly drunk, the Chairman responded. He referred to bad trade in general, and to that ef the bmild*