HYDE.  Rateable Value.—The rateable value of the townships of Hyde, Werneth, and Bredbury is now £76,452.  Birthday Party.—On Saturday last, Mr. W. Booth, of Hattcrsley, completed his 60th year, and to celebrate the event he called together a party of his friends and neighbours. About forty persons partook of an excellent supper, provided for the occasion. Afterwards the time was spent with music, dance, and song. he Mottram hand-bell ringers were present, and played some of their most favourite pieces. here was some excellent singing by Messrs. James Platt, William Taylor, and Andrew Salmon, who were accompanied on the violin by Mr. Joshua Cooper. A comfortable evening was spent, and at the conclusion votes of thanks were returned to the entertainers.  Funeral of the late Rev. J. Hill.—On Wednesday, the remains of the late Rev. John Hall, the highly-respected priest of St. Paul’s Roman Catholic Church, Newton, were borne to their last resting place, in the ground set apart for Roman Catholics at the Dukinfield Cemetery. he body lay in state in the church several days, and many hundred persons went to look at it. Various rumours were out as to where the deceased was to be interred. Choice was made of Dukinfield by the congregation, and their wishes prevailed, but it was only at the last moment that it was made known. he funeral was the most imposing spectacle of the kind ever witnessed in this neighbourhood. he scholars and the congregation lately under the charge of the rev. gentlemen assembled at the schools and church at ten o’clock in the morning. At eleven o’clock, high mass was said by the Bishop of Shrewsbury. At the conclusion of the religious ceremonies in the church, a procession was formed, which proceeded through Hyde and Flowery Field in the following order:—  Acolyte, crossbearer, acolyte, acolytes, wearing their surplices and carrying various emblems and instruments.  Fourteen little girls in white, with white falls and wreaths of white flowers arouud their heads, accompanied by three young women teachers, dressed in a similar manner.  Monrningcoach—Canon Frith, Revs. E. 1. Monaham, W. Stanton, and E. Slaughton. Hearse, containing body. Inscription on the coffin : Revdus. Johanes Hill, sacerdos, ob dii 6ta mensss Augusti, A.D 1869. iET. 50. RIP.  Coach—chief mourners, Rev. Mr. Powderley and Rev. J. Carroll.  Mourning coach—Mrs. Johnson, Miss Mc.Coy, Mr. Me.Coy. and Mr. Brannan. Mourning coach—Rev. Dr. Hall, Canon Toole, Rev. Canon Taskar, and Father Francis.  Mourning coach—Rev. C. Grymonprez, Rev. R. Hil ton, Rev. J. Robinson, and Rev. Mr. Moore.  Mourning coach—Rev. Mr. Walton, Rev. Mulvany, Rev. M. Dillon, Rev. Mr. Woods, and Mr. Coulan. Mourning coach—Dr. . C. Leah and Mr. J. Mycock. Private carriage—Mr. O. Grady, surgeon. Empty cab to bring back the acolytes.  he male scholars and teachers followed next, the smallest leading, all wearing flowers and white rosettes, with a little black in the centre. Following them were a large number of female teachers in white bonnets, and an equal number in black ones; and, lastly, the male portion of the deceased gentleman’s flock and friends. he funeral ceremony at the grave was read by the Rev, Canon Frith. he procession returned in somewhat similar order, Mr. Joseph Mycock was the undertaker.