HE LIVERPOOL MARKETS.  f.irerpool, Saturday. Sept. 22, 1827There has not been quite so much done this week in British Plantation Sugar, the sales amounting only lo )kNI hhds, at prices varying very little from those last quoted; in addition to which, however, 400 bags of fine white Bengal have found purchasers at "(is. (U. per cwt. Nothing has occurred in Foreign Sugar, and the transactions in Molasses amounted only lo 100 puns The sales in Coffee comprise about 200 casks, consisting chicfiy of ordinary and unclean qualities at rather lower rates Pimento continue scarce, but there is no demand either for Ginger nr Cocoa The prices and demand for Rum remain steady Our Uyrwood market still remains heavy, the sales this week consisting only of 23 tang Jamaica and Honduraa Logwood, 40 tens Spanish Fustic, and 25 tons Camwood, at about our quotations The business done in H ides consists of HOO dry salted Brasil Ox and Cow 71d.; 500 dry African (id.; 700 salted 4Jd.; 900 dry Russian Bid.; and 2400 Russian Kip at 9d. per ft. obacco has been in very fair demand, particularly far export, for which purpose some lots of ordinary Virginia l<e»f have been taken at and good Kentucky at 3Jd. Per lb The prices of Ashes have been fnlly supported, nut the sales are rather limited, consisting only of ISO brls Montreal Pot, 20 brls Boston, and 100 hrls Montreal Pearl. 200 tees Carolina Rice have been disposed of at ■7s. for ordinary to 10s. (id. for good, A parcel of Philadelphia Bark just imported has been sold from the vessel; but the price has not transpired. he sales in Turpentine amount to 5200 brls st Bs. (id. to 10s (id., being a reduction of Is. per cwl 000 brls Carolina Tar, recently arrived, have been sold on board at 17s. (id. per board. We have no change to notice in the demand or price of Shu rase. he public sales of Turkey Madder Roots attempted this week were withdrawn, the purchasers being unwilling to offer within is to 2s of the prices demanded; but 110 bales have been sold by private, at 3Hs to ids V cwt Olive Oil it in pretty fair demand, at about our quotations No sales have taken place in Brimstone, but Saltpetre continues in fair request Palm Oil keeps steady and some considerable sales have been made in yel. low candle Tallow, at a small improvement Valonia continues in good demand, the sales this week reaching 1100 lons, at £l5 15s to £lO 5s V ton In consequence of very favourable accounts received to-day from the Davis’ Strait fishery, the prices’of Fish Oils have become nominal; but tor the present we continue our last quotations. here has been very little done either in Beef or Pork, but prices remain about the same as last quoted. For Butter, however, there has been a very good demand, and prices are steadily supported.