heir passengers at the station to be careful. Had the one at the end of the train kef t his place till the train was stationary on the incline, the accident would not have occurred ; on that point all the witnesses are clear, and the only set-off against the charge of negligence appears to be that it is the general custom to neglect such precautions, and incur risk, in order to secure despatch. he railway system is a complicated machine which secures astonishing results in consequence of the accuracy of its adjustment, but which requires the utmost attention to details under the penalty of producing the most awful catastrophes. o convey two thousand people more than had been calculated upon a journey of many miles at almost a moment’s notice, and to bring them back to their homes the same evening for an almost nominal charge, is a feat of no ordinary magnitude ; but it has been done so often and so successfully that confidence has engendered security to an unjustifiable extent. his melancholy accident will doubtless lead, on the part of the railway companies chiefly concerned in the excursion traffic, to a revision of their system. In many parts it is capable of improvement. he carriages are usually older and less commodious than the stock employed in ordinary traffic ; but it sometimes happens that carriages which should have been broken up are kept to run on excursion trains. It is to be hoped these will be more carefully looked after, and that the practice of coupling immense numbers of caraiages together will receive a check. he brake power required for heavy trains on steep gradients has also been shown to be deficient. In this matter a legislative regulation may be necessary to fix the limit a train should not exceed, and the number of guards or qualified persons in charge of each. A judicious encouragement of excursion traffic by ordinary trains would do much to relieve the pressure upon officials, and diminish the risks of over crowding and irregularity. he public also which uses excursion trains is not without room for improvement. Drink was handed about freely in the Haslingden train, and the guards were treated, although not to the extent of incapacitating them for their duty. It was not so bad as in the case of the equally dreadful accident which occurred at Wolverhampton a few years ago from similar causes, in which the passengers plied the guard with liquor in his van, and the loss of life which took place was partly attributable to this cause. On board of ship it is not allowed to speak to the man at the helm, but it is worse to give drink to the man at the brake. It will be of no use for railway companies to fit their carriages with more powerful brakes, and put them in charge of more numerous guards, if the public who travel in them are unthinking enough to corrupt the men and spoil them for their work. It is not only dangerous to passengers, but ruinous to the men themselves, and ought to be made an offence punishable with heavy penalties.