(General MClellan is in command of defences of the capital. Alexandria is filled with the dead and dying. 1 The Confederates remain masters of the recent battle  fields. he Federal* had to leave their dead unburied.  he re-appointment of McClellan has been satisfactory fo the army, hot has sot been received with equal tavour by the public. A proposition has been made to authorise Fremont and Mitchell to raise each an army of 50,000 men. It is asserted tha? Abolitionists will gladly serve under those generals, who would not otherwise take part in the war.  It is not believed that the President will accept the proposition. he whole male population of Cincinnati are in arms, or working on the fortifications to defend the city against the Confederate army of Kentucky, under General Kirby Smith, which threatens both that city and Louisville.  It is believed it is neither the intention nor the policy of the South to make an attack oa Washington.  he New York Heralds Washington correspondent says a gentleman just from the rebel camp estimates the forces under the five generals—J ackaon, Longstreet, Ewell, Hill, and Gustavus Smith—at not less than 250,000 men. hey are all consolidated at Manassas, excepting Smith’s column, 30,000, which is marching upon Fredericksburg, All the regiments engaged in the late battles fought gallantly. he loss is said to be 40 per cent of the forces engaged. he meeting of hostile battalions of cavalry was terrific, over 300 being dismounted by the shock.  A Washington tetter says“ The rebel mortality has been enormous, and their captured officers and surgeons admit a loss of from 10,000 to 12,000 killed and wounded up to Saturday night. ’ The Tribunes Washington correspondent says:— “ The government will immediately institute an inquiry into the cause of certain recent events with the view of punishing the responsible parties. 150 waggons, under negro drivers, were sent to the field of battle, under a flag of truce, to get the Federal wounded. he Confederates consented to the removal of the wounded, but detained the negro drivers. he Confederates claim the result of Saturday s (30th} fighting as their greatest victory of the war, asserting they captured 80 pieces of artillery, 5,000 prisoners, many stand of arms, colours, flags, &c. In all the fighting since they dashed on Manassas, they also claim to have captured waggon trains of supplies and ammunition, arms and camp equipage sufficient to supply their whole army now on Bull Run for many days. hey admit all this was not accomplished without a fearful sacrifice of life, and though the loss in the battle of Saturday is stated to have been not more than 400 killed and 2,500 wounded, they acknowledge a total loss in all the figh ing of 10,000 killed and wounded.