Sundavs SC MondayV:Post. FROM THE LONDON G/d-SETTE. Admiralty-Office, March 22, SOC. Copy of a Lettei from the Earl of StXFmcent, KB. Admiral and Commander in Chief efjHii M.tjettyt Fleet employed, and to be employed, i lit Channel, Soundings, or wherever eire Hit Ma jesty t Service thall require, to William Mar,den, Eq; dated or. board the Hibernia, in Fnlmouth-H liLour, the IJlh Intant, Sir, I have the honour to transmit, for ttte information of the Lords commissioners of the admiralty, the inclosed copy of a letter from Capt. Pafet; and have Kr,,Jt pleasure in expressing my adultat.on of the gallant exploit therein recorded. * 1 am, &c. 3T. VINCENT. Egyptienne, off ape Finlilerre, -‘.A Maitb, 1 sod. Mv Lord, I have the honour to inform your Lordship, that having received intelligence of a larje French Privateer being in the harbour of Murol I decided on seizing the first opportunity of gain id; possession ol her; 1 accordingly anchored his Majelty’sship under my command otf that port last nigh*, and immediately «ent the boats away to endeavour to cut her out, in which, i am happy to aerju.-nt your Lordship, they succeeded, though she wa-, moored close to the beach, and under the protectin! of two batteries, which kept up an incessant ft. ~ till she was towed clear of their range. his vessel which appears to be piHectly adapted for his Majesty’s service, proves to |e L’Alcide of Bourdeaux, a frigate-built ship, picked for thirtyfour guns, only two years old,and h.il, when last at sea, « complement of two hundred "nd forty men. his artair, so honourable to those \\ o atclneved it, was conducted by Captain Handheld, who was ably supported by Lieutenants Alleyn and Ggrthwiite, of the marines, the petty officers and boats’ crew. o account for that enterpriaing zealous officer, Captain Handheld, being in the Egylntienne, 1 have to inform your lordship, that not having eceived an official communication of his promo, .on previous to our sailing, he volunteered, remainir, ’ in the ship as first lieutenant during the cruise. 1 have the honour to l,e,&c. CHARLES PAGET. he Earl of St. Vincent, Admiral of /A Red, and Commander in Chief, We. We.