*l7a/I. V ( h i ESTE J{, TUESDAY, DEC. aj._. BIRTHS. On Thursday re’nnlght, Mr« Potter wife of Mr James Potter, of Spoffbrth, tier Wsthcrhy, Safely delivered of 111/1-e fine girl*, who, with the mother, are doing well —On Wednesday se-’nnight, the Lady of Sir Francis Bind tt, B..rt. of a daughter. married. l ately, the Rev. J. Checbrongh, of Hnle-Hdl, Chediire, to Mi*s K. Sewell, youngc-t daughter of the Rev. J. Sewell, of Kitncorn.—On Wednesday last at S*ockpoit, Mr John-on, to Mr* Scott, both of that place. —On Sunday at Eerie*, Mr John Strett e, of Little Bo.ton, to M s« Ann Hunter, of the former place.—At the Collegiate Church, Mr )>• *eph I.eather. to Mias Martha LovJ, both of thi* tow n—On Wednesday last at rlu- Collegiate Church, Mr Thomas Johnson, linen-draper, to Miss F.l a.ilieth Woodi-vis, both of this town.— On Friday, Mr Jim s Barnes, 0f Kendal, to Miss Mary-Ann Uylcy. of this town.—Lately, Mr Jodiua Kidder, of N.-w Mill, in the parish of Ashton-under-line, to Miss Ann Buckley ,o( Hoiliuwood. On VVednt-.d-iy sennin.ht. at Woodford, by the Rev. John Peploe Mosley, William Henry Ashnrst, l-«q eldest son of St W ff. Ahurst, of Water-stock, Oxfordshire, to Mis* Mosley, sister of Sir Oswald Mosley, Bait. , DIED. A few days ago, John Jackson, Esq. Manager of the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh —On Friday se’nnight, at h!s residence in St. Mary Axe, London, a.cd 82, Joseph Denison, Esq. Merchant, father to the newly elected Member for Hull. He is reported to have left behind him property to the va| lue of oni million st Tin".—On Wednesday the Bd inst. Mrs Barlow, wife of the Rev. R. Batlpw, mas. j ter of Win wick school—On the 9th in-t. greatly j esteemed and regretted, Mr Thomas Sidebotharr, of I Warrington.—Same day, generally te*prcted, Mr George Williamson, of King-streit, Salford.—On Friday- the ath in«t. Mr Samuel VVillu, of the Angel Inn, Northwich.—On the 10th Inst, suddenly, Mr Benedict Paul Wagner, far advanced in years; he was the first merchant in the foreign line ever settled in Live.pool.-On the 11th inst. Mrsß.ttye, w.fe of Mr lames Battye, of Lcvenshulrre, alter a long and painful indisposition, which she bore with foititude and resignation.—On Thursday se’nnight, aged <>l, Mr Lancntcr, surgeon and man-midwife, of Black horn.—Same day, at Middlewich, after a { long illness. Mr I iiomas Beckett, timbcr-meichant. —On Wednesday la-t, Mr* Dili-, wile of Mr Ollis, of the Crown and Anchor, Hilton-streei.