“ Kill ■/r Care.”—A short time since, a resjiectalile medical practitioner, not a bundled mile* from Ludlow, Salop, was called up in the night, by a labouring man, residing at a few miles distance, to attend bis wife, who was in child-bed. Mr. W. who had often attended under similar circumstance*, without obtaining any remuneration, asked the man who was to pay him. he countryman answered that he possessed five pounds, which, kill or cure, should be bis reward. Mr. W. consequently paid e*ery attention to the poor woman, who, notwithstanding, died under his hands. Soon after her death, Mr. \\V. met the widower, at Ludlow, and observed tint he had an account against him. he man appeared greatly surprised, and inquired for what? On being informed, be replied, “ I dont think I owe you any thing: did yon cure my wife?* “ N’u. certainly (said the accoucheur) it was not in the power of medicine to cure her." “ Did you kill her, then *” said the country man. “ No; I did not,” was the reply. “ Why, then (said the countryman) as you did not either kill or cure, you are not emitted to the reward," and walked away. /hr mint ham //nn/u-a re.—The following anecdota, which is of undoubted authenticity, will sufficiently prove the decided superiority, which, in addition to her other advantages. Great Britain possesses in the article of hardware. Some time ago a French nobleman of disvinction was introduced to a manufacturer in Birmingham, by whom he was shown through the different workshops, Ac. where the various mechanical contrivances, the judicious arrangement of the business and the high degree of polish to which the several articles were brought, attracted very strongly the attention of the noble visitor. At length, producing a gold snuffbox from his pocket, he said, thst it was somewhat strange, that with our superiority of skill, vs could not equal the manufacture of that bin e. he proprietor of the manufactory took the box in his band, and after viewing it for sometime very attentively, be requested per mission to take it asunder, assuring its owner that it should suffer no damage. It was accordingly taken to pieces, when the manufacturer found his own initials on the inner edge of the box, which, though made the boast of French ingenuity, had been actually formed on the very spot where they stood. London Drinking.—lt is calculated that not less than 65,000 pipes of wine, 10,0J0 gallons of spirits, and 200.0.XJ barrels of ale and porter, are annually drunk in the metropolis.