Arrivals at LIVERPOOL, Since our last.  Africa. he Margaret, and the Triton, from Sierra Leon* ; with palm oil, teakn-nod, and camwood. WEST INDIES. he General Brack, the 1‘andora, and the Con. gress, from Barbadoet; the Traveller, from St. Vincent, and the Sarah, from Dememra; with old copper, sugar, cotton, ginger, tamarinds, coker nult, gourds aloes, pepper, arrow-root, molasses, coder, and castor oil. BAHAMAS. he Holla, from Aeie Providence, with coder, cotton, yellow wood, Bririletto wood, fustic, logwood, mahogany, sugars, hides, cotton, sticks, and limes. UXITED STATES. he Sally Anne, from Boston; the Orbit, the William Thompson, the A henna, the I.uander, the Spenno, the Illinois, the Alfred, the Alexander Mansfield, and the Euphrates, from A Vie York; the I atom Ann, the Crisis, die Samuel and John, die Kelndeer, the Buck, die Francis, the Jessie, the Maria, the Baltic, the Samaritan, and the Liverpool Trader, fiotn New Orleam ; the America, the Persia, the Chatham, the Llysses, and the Ardent, from S.rannni ; die Virginia Packet, and the Philip Tubh, from Virginia • the General Brown, the Hindustan, and the I l.nitonia, from CHnrletlnn ; the Manchester, and the Stranger, from Pk,ladeli>hui; the Olive, from Mobile ; ami the Canadian, from Darien; with rice, cotton, trees wax, iron ore, tobacco, horn tips, deer and ox horns sassafras root, black oak bark, staves, old junk, turpentine, ashes, cane reeds, and tar. BRITISH AMERICA. he Penelope, the Lydia, & the William Dawson, from Miramichi; the Edward Jones, the Hlnnah, the Cumberland, the Mary Ford, and the Superior, from Xoca Scotia; the Harriet, from Canada , and I  he CatoliiP, frew Quebec; whh nine timbre, I*th. wood, JraK liinli anil henh plant, sahi^n, herrint>l, fur--, imnwe and elk >kin-; mavtt, bill* >, 1 Slaves, luiulvpiki*, "Id ashes. SOUTH A MP.mc.t. he Antelope, and the Frances, from Bura it Ayn;; with salted hides, sea lion skins, silver, nutria skins, horse Itair, cow and oi burns, kip and calf skins, hoise hides, Madeira wine, specie, and bullion. SI.HX. he Edinburgh Packet, from Fuynl; with wine and lemons. VOttTUGAT.. he I,.inenshire Witch, the hi race, from Lisbon ; and tiie Wakefield, from Ojioitu; with wine, wool, olives, lemons, mats, saffron, oranges, cotton, and corkwood. FRAXCF.. , The Alecto. from Havre tie Grace ; with sheeps wool and lias. GF.RMAXr. 1 The John and Margarets, from Hamburgh ; and the Mentor, from Ihnt.ig ; with cow hides, ealt skins, pictures. It henish wine, salted hides, kip skins, hr bulks, staves, deals, oak hark, and empty hags, rurssu. Asile, from Dair-tg; with tir balks, staves, deals, and lathwood. nrsstA. A unwell, from Riga ; with hemp, linseed, mat*, deal ends, deals, and spars.