Exttatl if a letter from nn OJJi:er in Eiirl St. Vincent s FJeet. J.,Ud IV ejnuday last, off Brest. «« We ftand clofer in fliorc than ever. he blockade has been very ftrict for thefe three months paft, and ail forts of provifions, have been prevented from enter iog Breft for the fleets. he flying or looking cut tqjadron of frigates keep fo clofe into the roads, as to be frequently within reach of the batteries This they do to prevent a fleet of tranfports at St. Maloe*. laden with naval ftores and proiffiotw, from efcapihg into Breft. Bonaparte has fent orders to that fleet of tranlports to fpare no efforts to reach Bret; and he has alfoj fent orders to trie French and Spanifh fleers in Breft, j that t0 lea they mult go, at every hazard." he American Commillioncrs in France are faid to have returned home, in order to arrange a commercial j point in their negueiutiou, and under a promile that j Ameiican vuTels, not being letters of marque, fhall: paf- unmolcfted According to the fame authority on] ■which this flaremcnt is made, Gen. Pinckney is likely to be the new Prelidcnt. he negociation too between America and England, it is added, is not fettled; and the Engiifh Comnai/fioocTl who were fetit to America have left New-Yoik in the St. Alban man of war, on their way taEngland. he value of land has progreffivc.y increafed, in conlequence of improvements in cultivation, and the increafed confumption of the produce of the laud. Before England became a trading nation the general price of land was twelve years purchafe ; at the be-( ginning of the lafl century it fold for about fixteenj years purchafe ; and at the commencement of the 1 prefent century it had advanced to twenty years purchale ; about the year 1730, it had rifen to twentyfive years purchafe. his increafe of the number of years purchafe paid for land, is the mot obvious proof of its augmented value. By the London Gazette (given in ourlaft) it appears that the expcdit.on under >ir James Pulteney has failed againft Ferrol. he chief and perhaps immediate object of General Pulteney is iuppofed to be Tenerifte —; It is certain that the Court of Spain has lodged vail treafuies there coming from America, which fhe dared not bring borne for fear of the Engiifh cruifers The chief def ence of the ifland is a militia, and it is exuecled that it will fall an eafy conqueft: A letter from Bombay, of the 20th January, fays, Accounts from the northward convey the acceptable intelligence of the price of coton falling from the exorbitant rate to which it had rifen in the early part of the feafon, it being procurable at icj rupees tne candy." We learn alfo from China, that the markets rhcre had fallen confiderably, Scindeah has i«ifl"Sed very ievere punifhment on fome native merchants, uuplicaicd i3 advancing the price of cotton.