MANCHESTER, January 18.  Y-fferday at the Infirmary, the following i’atientf were difeharged and admitted, viz. In Patients cured 7 In Patients admitted j Made Out-Patients b Out-Patients 4) Relieved 2 Home Pat mt* 24 Out Patients cured 23 Accidents this Week 7 Relieved 4 Lunatic aJirntt-d o Heme Patients cured 17 Remain in th fume 7a Relieved 3 In the Lunatic Holpital s» Dead 2 Chaplain for this Week, the Rev. Mr Miilward. Houle Vilitors, Mr. Arthur Orgg, and Mi Michael Cotton, Yi llerday hamml Bowers. Flsj; cf High (Hove, gave (ofiah lliich.F.fqj Tiealurtr for# the Infirmary, Fwent/ Out* near, towaids the lupport of that noble li.flitutiou. New >1 tSCkIBIiRS. Mr. Ceorgt Hartley, of Ardwick 220 Mr. R.chard Dixon 2 2 0 MclT W. Douglas and Cc. advanced from 3 3 oto < 4 o Saturday the blh lull. d:cd, Mi. Janus Blown, Fuller, at Lands End. A few Days ago Hied, Mrs. ravis, Wile cf Mr. ravis, Apothecary, in St. Maiy’t-Gute. Fall Week died, at Don Kefvnk. near I tare wood, aged 110, jcrimiah Wrlkinfon, of that Place. Satdrday died, after a teduii* IndUpofition, Mr. John Ciofslcy, Futlian Manufacturer. Wednefday was married at Ormfithk, the Rev. Mr. Oldham, ol Ham, in Stafford (hire, to Mils Oldlcaa , Lie of this Town. At the Quarter Sefhons of the Peace for the County ef Chefler, which ceded on Wed nt I Jay l»(t, Nathaniel Ale.,-k, and George Jktdcy, ot Newton, near Mottum 111 i.oiv.di’udalc, in that County, Hatters, and Matthew Cooke, of the lame Place, Cotton-Fpinner, were iudtfud fm tioti-s.iK ai* frrtihlirg in the Night of the 311! ol Odobei lall, with 1 veral otlio Perfor.s not yet apprehended, on the F ahh.t-w uren ot John Whittle, ot Holimgworth, in the laid C-iunty, Gentleman, and violently alLuhing and heatir g Jolm Lowtjn, the Servant of Mr. Whittle, employed in watching the Rabbit-warren, and being com iCted, wire levc rally o.Uci d to be committed to the Houfe ot Coer- (lion at M ndl. wuh, n Che (hire, tor three Calendar Months; at the I.xpnat ’>o of which 1 ime they arc each to pay a Fine of 4C» to t!. Sheriff- of the County for the tile of his Majrtfy, a::J remain confined until the faid Fine is paid, and until they dull have leverally entered into R-cognizante ssitli two icrfexnt Suuties, before one of Ins Maj flys Joffiec* of the Peace for the County, themfllvts and ih Sureties in 2oi tach, i.r their good K-.haviotir for the Teim of two Yrar«. It is hoped the Eximptc made of thrfc Offenders will hav, a piuptr stf.O, and deter ether Perlbns from comnutl:np Depreda1. Ms upon Rabbit-warrens, 3Or leva nee ssi -cl. s long prev-ied in that Courts’, and juftiy mints the Puidfl-etcat itvffKtrd no the ah .v< Offenders.