Saturday’s and Sunday’s Posts.  From the Etching Posts and Dailv Pacer*, Sept. i*. AMERICA. Fr tn tie New-York Gaie i rs. Nrw-Veti, Aug. i. Yellcrday Morning the Fchocae/ Or! ly, Capt. Ncwbold, arrived lure from GhaiJes-Tovvsj, alter a Padage of eight Days. By her we have the mo ft ceitain Intelligence that General Green, the Rebel Chiu in that Countiy, has avoided ejcry pofiiblc Appearance of Cornell with his Majelly’s Troops, ever lince that diflinguifhod Day in which he was repnlied in an Attack made upon the Work* at Ninety-fix, and which Works were only defended by a few but brave Men of his Majefly’s Provincial Troops, under the Command of the gallant Odom I John Harris Ciugcr, of General De Lanccy’s Brigade, "ihat Green’s Army confilti of about Bao Continentals, inclusive of Cavalry, under the Command of Lee, together with about as many Militia, under the Command of Marian and othrrsi theft make up the Flower of that Army lb highly Ipokcn of in Rebel Record*, and who by their rapine, plunder, and cruelty, arc conllantly drawing on themfclves tt.c heaviefl Curies of an injured and ruined People. B> i Dolly, Cron Cl;ar!s-Town, South C.r.olina, we aic inform d, that Loid Rawdon, alter Mr. Green got the Feverc drubbing from Col Cruper, oa die i;th of June, ordeud the Pelt of Nioety-fix to be demolillird and rclinquilbed, having, r.»r the Accommodation of the Arm>. ictnoved to Orangeburgh,Bo Miles dilbr.t from Charle»-To*i:, General Giccu has quitted his late Pof.tiou on Saluda, and retreated over the Lnnorre, which Jail Rivet he paffed at Hendrick’s Fci J with uncommon Precipitation, being clofily pullied by l.ojd Rawdon, who was within two Horn» march, of coming up with hiiri at that Place. Aru-d ,-(■*. Auguft 11. By very lute Accounts from Philadelphia, we art intcimed the Rebels are in great Ccnltcination octal, acd by blocking up the River liclawaie, a Fit l of la Sail bound lor Htvann ih (the favon. tc O’/ct ol then Trade, and bource ot all their Revenues) on their Vojavc down, piocecdii g to f-ra, pcrceiv.d the Britiib Fleet, and (uddenly | lifhcd back to their foi mti Moorings. By a Pnee bioujht ui two 01 three Days ago, bound from the Wtll-Ir.dics to Philadelphia, vte aic inform, d, that the french Fleet under M. de Guile pafLd by the lllandof St. homas on the ibtli of July, fleering Weflwaid ; HllcenL iic of Bank- Ships, and about two hundred Mtiel.ant-n-.cn, Tranfpotts, .Stoicftrips, Scc. were counted. When the Mammne left Rhode Bland, all the F.crck f.tet were in Newport Harbour —1 he Rebels at P?v;dtnce were equipping a Number cf Ihiail Privateers, but hud nene out except a I mail Ship of 20 Guns, commanded by a iti fon named Olncy.