BANKRUPTS.  StephCTi Pcarlon, of Thrapllon, in the County of Northampton, Shopkeeper, Dtralet and Chapman; to appear Oft. 19, 20, and Nov. 3, at Guildhall, London, Attorney, Air. Fairbank, Ely-plaec, London. James Macgowan, of Palcr-nolterrow, London, Bookfeller; to appear Oft. 13, 13, and Kov. 3, at Guildhall, London. Attorney, Mr. Fairbank, Ely-place, Loudon Jolm Haworth and Edmund Hawoith, late of Blackburn, in the County of Lancalter, Callico-printers, Dealers and . Chapmen, furviving Partners of William Haworth, late at the fame Place, Callico-printer, deceaied ; to appear Oft. 12, 13, and Nov. 3, at the Royal Oak Inn, in Mancheller, Attorney, Mr. Milne, in Mancheller. John Lee, of Bridgnorth, in the County of Salop, Shoemaker, Dealer and Chapman ; to appear Oft. 5, 6, and Nov. 3, at the Hand and Bottle, in Bridgnorth. Attorney, Mr. Gilbert Brown, in Shitfhal). Richard Wilks, of Narrow-ftrcet, Limchoufe, in the County of MiddleTex, Brandy-merchant, Dealer and Chapman; to appear Oft. 6, 13, and Nov. 3, at Guildhall, London. Attorney, Mr. Wooirich, Clitibrd’s-inn. William Antrobus Sydebotham, of Stockport, in the Connty of Chefter, Button-manufafturcr; to appear Oft. Jj, 17, and Nov, 6, at the Anchor, in Stockport. Attorney, Mr. Robert Newton, in Stockport. DAYS appointed for the Payment of DIVIDENDS. Oft. 13. William Ellam and Samuel Spendlcy, of Manchellcr, in the County Palatine of Lancaller, Mercers and Copartners; at Guildhall, London. Ij. James Linden, of the Town and County of Southampton, Printer, Bookfeiler, Dealer and Chapman ; at the Dolphin Inn, in Southampton. 15. James Armfhong, late of the City of Chichefter, in the County of SuiTex, Mercer, Dealer and Chapman; at the Dolphin Inn, in Southampton, 16, Charles Tagg, of Reading, in the County of Berks, Cabinet-maker and Ifpholfterer; at the George Inn, Reading. 19. Richardfon Kingslor.l, of the Pariih of A(h next Sandwich, in the County of Kent, Miller, Dealer and Chapman ; at Guildhall, London. 9. John Flindeis, of the Town and County of the Town of Nottingham, Cornfaftor, Dealer and Chapman; at the Biackmoor’s-Head, in Nottingham. 19. John Randle, of North Kilhvorth, in the County of J eicefter, Woolcombcr, Tammy-weaver, Dealer and Chapman; at the Peaccek Inn, in Davcntry. ■24. Harry Butt, late of Liandilo Crcllenny, in the County of Monmouth, Batcher, Dealer and Chapman; at the Ram, in Gloucellcr. 24. Elizabeth Roberts, late of the City of Gloucerter, Vintner, Dealer and Chapwoman; at the Ram, in Glouceller. 27. John Fry, of Whitechapel, in the County of Middlefex, Cheefemonger, Dealer & Chapman; Guildhall, London. 37. William l earn, of Wood-ftrcet, in the City ol London, Silvulmith, Dealer and Chapman; Guildhall, London. 12. Richard Gamon, of Harpur-fheet, in the Pariih ot St. George the Martyr, in the Count/ of Mlddlefex, Merchant; at Guildhall, London. Nov. 2. Stephen AtleeT, of the Parilhof Warfield, in the County of Berks, Dealer and Chapman ; Guildhall, London. CERTIFICATES to be GRANTED. Oft, it. John Boafgrave, of Chingtord, in the County ol Eifex, Higler, Dealer .ni Chapman. 16. homas Aldridge, now or late of Hadleigh, hv tlic County of .Suffolk, Maltilcr. Dealer and Chapman. 16. Charles Mahloc, of Ball Dereham, in the County of Norfolk, Scrivener.