i MARRIED. On Thursday last, Dr. Larden, of Chester, to . Miss Orton, daughter of Thomas Orton, Esq of Tattenhail.—On the 23d ult. at Acomb, near York, , T. G. Ragiand, E*q. to Miss Eiiza Bnch, daughter of the late Samuel Ogden Birch. Esq of this town. ; —On Monday the 22d ult at" Leigh, Mr James I Le gh, son of Robert Leigh, Eq. of Kenyon, to ; Miss P,iit, daughter of Samutl Part, E-q. of AtherI ton Lodge.—On Sunday week at Liverpool, Mr R. . Carter, of Hambleton, near Poulton in ti e Fylde, aged 76, to Miss Sarah Gardner, innkeeper, of the former place, aged 30.—On Monday la>t at Wigan, Mr John FiTier, of that place, to Mi.:s Mellody, of . Maghull, near Liverpool.—On Tuesday last, at St Johns Church, Mr Wm. Nightingale, of Hunts , Bank, to Miss Rose, of Straogeways.—On Thursday, at the Collegiate Church, Mr John Fenton, of this town, to Miss Ellen Pendleton, of Salford —On Ffiu.sday sennight, at the Collegiate Church, Mr Wm Greenhow, manufacturer and spinner, to Miss Robinson, of Ulverstone. DIED. On Friday the 26th ult. Mr Wm. Euszard, or ! Hulme, in his 51st year.—On Monday scnnight, at his son-in-laws house in St. Johns-street, Mr James Yeomans, aged 88 years.—Wednesday sen. night, deeply lamented by her family, relatives and acquaintance, Mrs Jerrkinson, wife of Mr Joseph I Jenkinson, of Heaton Norris.—On Sunday week, at • his house in St. Anns, Liverpool, aged 70 years, 1 ! Mr Newman Hyde, late of this town.—On Wed ! ne«day last, in this towrt, Garside B-ntiey, Esq. Barrister at Law; a young gentleman of the most promising talents.—On the 16th nit. much respected by all who knew him, Mr Wm Morris, of Sale, Cheshire —On Wednesday last, Miss Siddall,daughter of the late Mr John Siddall, of Fahowfieid, mar this town—On Monday sen.night, Joseph Fowdm, E-q. ol Schools Ffill, near Cheadle.—On the 5th j inst. at Aid*ick, in her 64th year, Mrs Martha \\ Tleys, sincerely and deservedly respected. Her loss will be deepy regretted by her friends.—On Wednesday the 24th ult. at Middlewich, Miss Ann Wdkiii-oii, aged 22 years; af er a long and paiiiful illness, which she bbre with Christian fortitude and resignation.—On the 2d of December last, aged 80 years, B.tty Rowlinson, who lived 63 years with her husband, and Was mother to 15 childieo Grand-mother to... 55 Great grand-mother to 66 Gteat great grand-mother to... 1 137 Married into the family 21 Total...158 »he husband is now living, and in good health.