MARRIED. A few days ago, Mr Backhouse, to Miss Jane Holroyde, both of Rochdale.—On Thursday the Bth inst. Mr Robson, of Leeds, woolstapler, to l-abela, fourth daughter of .-iimpson, Esq. of the Heath, near Halifax—On Wednesday last, at Stockport, MrF. Worthington, to Miss Lucy Broadhurst, both of that place.—On the 12th inst. at Uiverston, Mr William Calrow, of Wood Hill, near Bury, to Miss Margaret Town, of the former place.—At St. Johns Church, Mr Gabriel Newton, to Sarah, only daugl i ter of Mr Adam Crompton, both of this town. DIED. On the sth inst. at Froxfield, the Rev. Clement Crtittwell; a gentleman whose various literary performances, for labour, extent and utility, have rarely been equalled, and, when regarded as the productions of an unassisted valetudinarian, have perhaps never been surpassed.—On the 6th jnst. Ac his house in Islington, near London, Mr John Haworth, kite of this town.—On Tuesday last, sincerely Tegreted by her relatives and ;riend*, Mrs Elizabeth Woodburne, aged 57, wife of Mr William Woodbume, of Lancaster, merchant—At Merchieston Bank, on the 4th inst. in the 80th year of his age, John Home, Esquire, -Author of the Tragedy of Douglas, eke.— —Tall Highlander. his gigantic Caledonian di d lately in Duke-street, London. He was 7 feet 4 inches high. He fcttg! •aj Crqwn Point, in-America, in the year 1759, and when, by a wound he received from a slant hanger, part of the guts or ilia was laid open, he, in this dreadful condition, killed two French soldiers, and took an officer prisoner.— This gallant action was rewarded by his present Majesty with a pension of two ?h llings a day for life —On Wednesday, after a lingering illness, in his 84th ye3r, at his seat at Hagley, Worcestershire, the Right Honourable William Henry Lord Lytteton. He If succeeded in his title fey his eldest son, the Honourable George Fuike Lyttleton.—On Monday last, alter a long, and severe illness, which she bore with exemplary resignation, Mrs Stringer, wife of Mr Samuel Stringer, of Sallord ; sincerely and deservedly1 lamented.