DIUTHS. On the 2jtb lit tlx Lady ot Win. Jenkins, ol Ca.tlt, near W isrl-ron.be, Somerset, K-q of a daughter, to whom an her iirtb-rigil, the nime JiiaiLA Han been gxen.—On theVArhmlt at Halitford, Middltttf, Mn Harbor, w,iow of Captain Harbor, late of the 3dth Regiment, of a ion M.umtkn, Lately. atot Georges Church, Canterbury. Mr 1 homes Partridge, to Mia S CouUon. he sngulariy of their appeaiance excited much attraction, the mm hying about si* feet four inches. and the lidy about 4 feet. From their yomb/ui look*, and •prightlineisof manners, it wai strongly coojectuird that it was a run ««aty match, particularly a» thnr united ages could not, on a moderate calculation, be mrrt than 150 years!—On Tuesday last, at Leigh, Air .amei Monk, of A*lley, to Mia* Heunti, daugh ter of Peter Hewitt, E-q ol Green Hall, Atheit m —On Wednesday, at the Collegiate Church, Mr William Wood of Cheetham, to Miss Giace Luiton, u( Rhodes near Middleton. DIED, I.ately, at Woolwich, aged IC2, W An.Wn, E«q who had been upwards of «( years in the Royal 1 rain of Artillery.—l.ately. at Overton in his 71st I car alter a long and seecre illness, Richard Wdlum-on, E»q (oimcrly of Liverpool l.itely, John Maeee, F.«q. ptop-.etor of the Dublin Evening Post, and formerly an eminent bookseller and lottery-ofßcrkeeper, in that city —On the 27th ult Mr Cooper, jun, son of Mr T Cooper, late of the George and Drag in public house, Leeds He death w u occasioned by eating nuts.—On the 29‘h ult in the 37rh year of his age, after the short illness of four hours, of the gout at his stomach, fames Lancashire, E.q’ of Shaw, near Rochdale. -On Friday week, in London, alter a sery short illness, in the prime of hie, the celebrated Artist in the Caricature Line of Drawing, Mr G M Woodward, the only son of Mr Woodward, of Stamon by Dale, Derbyihire On Saturday week, aged 2S. M.ss Alice Ctitchley, of l.eyland.—Same day, aged 32, Mr John Simpson calico manufacturer, of Hlackburn.- On bundsy week, aged 41, Mr Ralph Kershaw, of Copstei Hill, near Oldham ; his loyalty and attach-mrot tc the Constitution ot his Country were unshaken, and hi* phdanthiopy and goodness of heart ci Jeared h m to hn neighbours in particular -nd his numerous acquaintance in general, by whom hn death is most sincerely regretted —Yesterday week in the 19th year of hit age Mr F. Parry, youngest ton ol Mr Parry, baker, of Chetlr. a youth whose death wa> occasioned by an explosion of lirc-work, on the right c! he 2Jth ult—On Wednesday last, In hi57th year, Jackson Mason, E-p. oi.e ot tf.e aldermen ol the borough ol Lancaster.