FRENCH BULLETINS.  he twrnry-hr»t U.ilU-lin g;.es a detail of the opi-rations of the English army from the 20th October, to the taking of Oene-al Litelmc on the “!>h IVc-mber. On the tfSth of December, Borupa-te’s nend quarter* were at Valdei-*. the Marshal Soult at Manciila, and the Marshal Ney at Viliater I he twrnty-secat’J Bulletin, dated Bcnetente, December 21, state*, “ heed-quarters of the hr nch were here yesterday. Mar-hil Br«iere« pa<-eil through Brnttenfe on tl.e 30th, at night, and pursed the entmy to i’uente. he Ihght of the Engli«h is >o rjJ c», that they hate their «ick a:>d wounded in the hospital*, and shoot their horses that were fatigued or wounded -they ha*e a-o been obliged to burn a *npesl> migatme of «toth:Bg, &c. kil the Ge man* in the Engh-h serv ce desert The twenty-third Hu fetin, dated Bcnetnte Jan. I, says, “ the Mar-hall Soult arnted at Manciha on the 30th, which was occupied by the enemy’s left wing under Romana General Franct-chi oterfhiew them with a single charge, and killed many ; they lost D"e Colonel, two Lieut. Color.e *, o ) officers, and I jcO men. On the 3lst Marshal boult entered l.eon. Marshal Brssieres. with !M0 casalry, t« pursuing the English We hate glk) eaggsnsol baggage left on the mad to Astorga Romanas remains hare thrown them*el»es into Astorga— General St Cyr has joined General Duhesme ; that junction has raised ins army to -Kf.COJ. he King ol bpa n has go-e to Aranjoei. in order to renew the first corps, commanded by the Duke of Beduno." he twenty-fourth Bulletin, dated A-torga, Jan. r2, say*. “ The Emperor air.red here on the Ist The road from Bsnerente to Astorga, is corered with dead English hor-es, waggon*, and caisson*. On the toad (ion A«torga to V ila Franca, Genenl Colbert, command ng the aJtanced guard, made if*XX) pr.seners—The Emperor has cha-ge J the Duke ,->f Dalmatia with the glorious miss m of pursuing the Kngli-h to their point of debarkation, and of throwing them into the sea—Oener.,l bt Cyr has entered Barcelona; the Dukes of Coroegl.ano and Tretiso hate merited Saragos-o, and taken possess on of Monte Terrern with little !os*. General Sebastians hating pa«*ed the i’aguson the 24th, at Ara ib -po, has attacked and routed the remains of the Estrarr.aduran army. General Valance has passed the Tagus orci the bt.dge of Almarcz *