Saturday’s and Sunday’s Posts.  From the Evening Posts and D.vn v Papers. June 5. A M E R I C A. Kingfton, ATasch I. Service (of the Schooner Convert, from St Tho \\jl mass) informs, tiiat about 15 Days ago, a Fiench 64 Gun Ship and a Frigate, fell in with three Englifh 74 Guns Ships that were cruizing to Windward, by which the latter, n mcd the Iphig-ne, was taken, but the former efeaped, 4 d .\\"t into St. F-ufUtkrs. A F.ench Two-decker has lately been loft to the Leeward : Saba, a Perfon w.;s a.lived at St. homass, who had been up > <ehe Wreck; he imagined Ihe mud have been blown up, flic had a French Pc ndant flying. hree F,ngli!h Velfels have been cut out of Mango, a neutral P it in St. Martins, by a French 50 Gun Ship and two I ;ij3tCs. Kugjicn, March 8. he Proferpine returning here from a ciuiu, fell in with two neutral Yelicls from the Cape, tbe captains of which mentioned, that two 74 Gun Ships, belonging to Vaudreuils Squadrous, had been loft oil* the Caraccas. A Schooner, Prize to his Majeflys Ship Rcfiftancc, has been lent in, die left the Refiftau.ce in chace of 14 Sail of Americans that were under th_ Convoy ot a 40 Gun Ship. Kingjhu, March XJ. Wednefday anived from a cruize his Majeftys Ship Reliflance, Capt. King, with La Coquette, a French Frigate of 28 Guns, commanded by Le Marquis de Grade, which flic captured ne::r Turks Ifland. he French have taken PoOcflion of Turks Ifland, with about 200 Men, and erected a Battery thereof 10 Guns; an Attempt has been made to difpoiTeis them by 130 Men, commanded by Capt. Dickfbn, wi.ofe landing was covered by thj Tattar and Drake Sloops, and the Barrington, but tirey were repulfed with fome Lo.s, as the Tartar, having 101 l he r Anchor, could not approach near enough to reach their Battery. he Spanifh Brig La Manra has been fent in, alf> the French Ship La Terrifte, of 24 Guns; the former is a Prize to the Alarm, Sybil, and Tobago ; Ihe was brought to off the Nswifla, by a Frigate belonging to Lord Hoods Squadron, which was then 111 fiftht. he latter was captured under Imperial Colours, off the Cape, by his Majeftys Ship Tartar, Capt. Fairfax; file is laden *ith Cordr.go and Rale Goods. Fhe Ship Holdcrnefs, entirely laden wilh Mads, Bowfprits, Ouk Plank, and Tuubtr, for the Marquis de Vau  dreuils Squadron, was taken about three Weeks ago by liis Majeftys Ship Jupiter, Capt. Paiflry, and conducted fafe into Antigua. his moft valuablePriac is eftimated at no lefs a Sum than io.cccl. Sterling, and is how unloading a: Englifh Harbour!