hursday’s and Friday’s Posts.  From the LONDON GAZETTE, April 15. St. James, April 9 THIS Day the Right Hon. Charles Greville. reafurer of his Majefty< Floufhold, was fworn of his Majedys moll honourable Privy Council, and took his Place at the Board. His Majefty has conftituted Lord LoiHrhboroueh, SirWm. Henry Alhurft, and Sir Beaumont Hotham, Lords Comniiifioners for the Cuftody of the great Seal. * This Day his Grace the Duke of Manchefter killed the Kings Hand on being appointed his Majedys Amb2iTador Fxtiaordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Moft Chriftian King. his Day George Maddifon, Efq; had the Honor to kifs the Kings Hand, on being appointed his Majeftys Secretary of Embafly to the mod Chriftian King. he King has been pleafed to grant to the Right Hon. Lord Foley, and to the Right Hon. Henry Frederick Carteret, the Office of Poftmafter-General. he King has been pleafed to appoint the Earl of Dartmouth to be Lord Steward; the Earl of Hertford to be Lord Chamberlain ; and the Hon. Charles Gn villc, to be Treafurer of his Majedys Houlhold ; and the Earl of Cholmondeley, to be Captain of the Yeomen of the Guards. I he King has.been pleafed to order Letters Patent to he pafled under the Great Seal of the Kingdom of Ireland for granting to the Earl of Shannon, the Right Hon. Charles SjSencer. and the Right Hon. Wm. Eden, the Office of Vice-1 ieaforers of IrelandThe King has been pleafed to grant to the Lo>"d Vifcount lownfhend the Office of MalK .-General of the Ordnance Alio to grant to Henry Strachey, Efq; the Office or Place of Keeper of his Majedys Stores, Ordnance, &c. Alfo to Wm. Adam, Efq; the Office of Treafurer and Paymaster of his Majedys Ordnance. Alfo to the RHrt Hon. Henry Fitzpatrick to be his Majedys Secretary at War. Alio to appoint Henry Duncan, Efq; to be one of the Con»nii(Tioners of his Majedys Navy, in the Room of Sir A. Snape Hammond, Knt. St. Jamess, April 14. his Day the Right Hon George James Earl Cholmondeley, the Right Flon. Richard Fitzpatrick Montagu, weie, by his Majedys Command, fworn of his Majedys mod honourable Privy Council, and took their refpeftive Places at the Board accoidimdv. St. Jamess, April 15. he King has been pleafed to appoint John Lee, Efq; one of ITis Majedys Council to be his Solicitor-General. Whitehall, April re. he King has been pleafed to appoint the Earl Fitzwilliam to be Cudos Rotulorum for the Soke or Liberty of Peterborough in the County of Northampton.