[Saturdaysand Sundays Posts.  From the Evening Posts and Dwil-v Papebs, Feb. 13. LONDON, February 13. YESTERDAY Morning fome Difpatche? were received from Halifax, which were brought ovtr in the Eliza armed Tranfport, arrived at Waterford; they are dated the 14th Of January, when every Thing remained quiet. 1 he. Ships bound to London were nearly laden, and were to fail the 10th Infla.-it. Yellerday Morning nine Gentlemen belonging to the Ruffian Company waited on Lord Shelburnt, with a Remonflrance relative to the vilible declenfion of their Commerce in confequence of the prefent Pian of Peace. Such are the general Difcontents about the Peace, that it is thoughtjthe prefent Minidry caitnot long keeptheir gtojnri It is certain that the wildell of the Republican Party themfelves never expected fuch humihatiug conceflions to our F.nemies, efpccially the Americans. he Ceffions made in Ca- , nada and Nova Scotia, hat e rendered the remaining Parts of thole two Provinces ufelefs to this Country. In the former,. the Americans have got the entire command of the Ft.r Trade; and in the latter, inexhaudibie Forcfisof the bed Timber on all that Continent for yielding Mads, and tor ail other purpofc? of Shipbuilding; the only Article which made them valuable to ourfclvcs. he Garrifon of Quebec confided, according to the late ft Accounts, of 36CO; thefe are to be augmented to 8coo effective Troops, from the Garrifon at New-York, as foon as the Troops are withdrawn from thence; befides which, it will be necefiiiry to have fome flrong Pods on the Bound.uies between Britifh Canada, and that which is ceded to the American States. Halifax, w hich is at preient Garrifmed by acoo, will be augmented with an additional 500, which eftablifhment at bbth Places, (which are now the only PolTrffjons of Great Britain on that extenfive Continent, where fhe but a few Years fince commanded a tiact of Country about tzo6 Leagues In extent) will be condantly kept up, as well as thofe in the Well-India Iflands. Britain rnntl hereafter be like the Porcupine, have all her .Quills ready to Shoot at every affailant.