HOMAS QUINCEY intending very fhortly to decline all Retail Trade, is now felling orT, on low Tern, his Prints, Muflins, Table Linen, Gawz, Laces, &c. of all Son*; with all his cut Goods of whatever kind, and Habetdalhciy Articles, in general. N. B. he Irifh Linen, Scotch, &c. rades, in the Whdefale Line, he will continue as uibal. Yeflerday at the Infirmary, the following Patients were discharged and admitted, viz. In Patients cured O I In Patients admitted 6 Ditto made Out Patients o | Out Patientsd 25 Ditto relieved o Home Patients ditto 10 Ditto dead o Accidents this "W-<k 6 Out Patients cured 15 Lunatics admitted 4 Ditto dead I Remain in the 6» Lunatic cured o Do in the Lunatic Hofpital 48 Home Patients cured 4 Chaplain for this Week, the Rev. Mr. Fox! Houfc Vifitors, Mr. Jofeph Harrop, & Mr. Samuel Hardman. On Friday the 28th ult. died at Little Heaton, in the Parifh of Prcfhvich, one Jane Wardle, aged 103. On Tuefday laff, the Rev. homas Ward, Prebendary of the Cathedral of Chefter, was prefented to the Vicarage of Nerton by the Dean and Chapter, on the Resignation, of the Rev. Mr. Archdeacon Ward. On Saturday lad the Rev. the Chancellor uf the Di Cheller, was pleafrd to appoint the Rev. Edward Taylor* .Curate of the Parochial Chajnl in Saddleworth, aSurn for the Probat of Wills, and Granting Licences o: ?. On Saturday lafl uas apprehended, f,.i feting, hawking and expoi.ng to Sale, the Noithcin Witch, for the Year ierving for the Pjicpofe ol an Almanrck undamped, and being carried before Maurice Griffith, D. i>. one of his Majefty s Juftices of the Peace for the County of L.nncafier, and was by him committed to ihc Hou reclion for three Months. Letters from Captain Harris, of the Succefs, belo, Whitehaven, now in Virginia, fay, " That the Rtccpt rhc Vfflcl by the Governor and principal Inhahitai cordial as could poflibly be .vilhed. Many J 1 on the fuperior Quality ol the G Hunt of the Ca; Icclarcd to Britift Cargo h :e. iadin peak with Certainty 1 1 England having the piu. >f the Commerce wilh America, v. it fo great a Propoition as nine-r. . * . . ■ •