Wednesday’s & Thursday’s Posts.  From the LONDON GAZETTE, May 28. Whitehall, May 27, 1805. DESPATCHES have been received Overland at the India-House from Bombay, dated the Jlst of December, 1804, enclosing u copy of a letter trom Lord Lake to Marquis Wellesley, of the 17lli ol November, giving an account of the re-nit of his attack upon the Cavalry of Jeswunt Kao H iikar, commanded by that Chief in person, upon that day, being the letter which was referred to by Lord Lake in his subsequent letter of the 18th of November, as published in the London Gazette Extraordinary of the 27th of April, 1805, and which was noticed in that Gazette as not having then arrived in England. o Hit Exrellfrscy the Most Xch.’e Marquis IVcIL-sUy, Governor Generali C r. tSV. ta Mv 1 oh n, I have the honour to inform your Lordship that, in pursuance of my intentions, expressed in my despatch of yesterday’s date, I reached this place thii morning, vvlto the Cavalry, before day-break, aftei a march of upwards of thirty-inur miles. he enemy occupied a position close under the walls of Ferruckabad, and I completely succeeded in ■surprising them. he consequence has been, that vast numbers of their men and horses have been destroyed, and the whole cattle and baggage taken, which they possessed. Jeswimt Rao Holkar escaped by an early flight, but his troops, in the greatest contusion, were pursued, and every where cut to pieces by my Cavalry. 1 am happy to add, that we have sustained very lit tie loss, either in men or hor-es. ! have not time, at the present moment, to expnss the satisfaction I have derived from the good Conduct of all the corps engaged, hut 1 shall have the honour of forwarding to your Lordship my sentiintuU on this subject a- soon as possible. 1 have the honour to lie, (See. (Signed)  LAKE. Hcad-Oaat trrs, Fsrruci.ib.ui, Xov. IT, ISO i.  same I)efpatches cr.ntain flur fo I lor ring paragraphs re pe.titij our tnHiiury operations in a : “ \\Cj feel also much pleasure in reporting the successful progress of the division of the army in Malwa, under the comm.mil ol Colonel Murray, which, aftrr completing the conquest of ilolkar’s possessions West of tlie Chumhiel, icached Muccondra on the 30th of November, ami still continued t» advance.’* *• On the St 11 inst mt* (renerd Jones was at Jowl a, one march beyond Kutlam, and would probably have joined Colonel Munay’s army by or before the pre* ttCi.t date.” ♦ I)_ ember Im)j.