iHancfjrcter, TUESDAY, MAY 29, 1804. Manchester Infirmary. At the Weekly Board Y’esterday, the following Patients were l)i«rhi»*ed and Admit red, 1 u. Chaplain attending this Week, the Rev. Geo. Hutchinson, . Moose Visitors a»>d Inspectors to both Honritals, also for this week Messrs, Braddo k, Edge a»d C>. H. and 1. Barton, Horradailet and Co* B irtoii and Son>, Barton and fish wick, Jno Barker and Cu Mancljefler Overseers Weekly Report* Number in the House •<ja— Cash paid to t ujal regular Poor, and Militia C43L >B*- lU. LYING-IN HOSPITAL. Admired in-patient* a.—Home patient* 7 Diicharged, In-patient* 3—Hunie-parieat* 1. j Inoculated for the Cow-Pox, 13. On the book* for adnvdinn 12. Remain in the Houlie 3 Women and 3 Children. Chaplain for the euiuing week. Rev E Hooih, A B Houfe Vifitora, Mr Partington. Sir Robert Peel. B*rt. M P Mr f Phillipa, Mr Paul.  BIRTH. On Thurfday fe’nnight Mr* Marr Henfhatv, of Larierwnrth, wa« fairly delivered ol four children, I three male* and one female, all of whom arc living and likely to do well —h’trtLnmfito* M treaty. MARRIED. On Thurfday fe’nnight, at Holton by the Sand*, Mr John Burnet, of Prrilon, linen draper, to Mif* Betty Bland, of Boton ah>refa;d.—Tuefday (all, at Northwith, Mr Thomas Fairclough, merchant, of l.iver pool, to Mifs M. Butter, ol Penny’s lane, near Northwith —-On Tuefday laft, at the Collegiate Church. Mi Adam Hatfield, to Mr* Elizabeth Howard, widow, of Salford.—Yeftcrday (Monday,) Mr, William Clapham, ol l,ced«, merchant, to Mif* Blanchard, daughter of Mr. Blanchard, of Ymk, printer. IX HD. Lately, in Liverpool, Mr* Chapmen, wife of Mr Chapmm, late of the Theatres Royal Covevt Garden and I ivcrpool.—On Thurlday fc’nnighr, in Bath, Ornrral (Maffty) Lord Clarira, aged 87 who in the year 174 c was wounded at the battie ot Culloden, and was at the head of the grenadiers who flormed and took the Havsnn.ih. where he was again wounded; alio at the taking of Martlnico. Lord Clarina was one of the lalt of General Wolle’s companions He i* (ucceeded in his tires by his fun Colonel MalTey, ol the Ennilkillen regiment.—Same day, aped 17, th« Rev. Jufeph Pickford. M A, Chaplain to the Countrfot Hvndlord, feconj fon ol Joltph Hadcliffc, 1 iq. of ! Milnfhridge Houfe, near Huddersfield.—On Friday fe’nmght, after a (liort illncls, Mr John Robinfon, of this town.—On the 15th inft. at Csftleron, in Dcrfcy (hire, Mr Mitah Hall, attorney at law.—On Wcdnelday fe’nnipht, at the fame place, Mr Sanutd Irvine, a man highly elleemcd !>v all who knew him day, Samuel Baglhaw. Elij. of Ford Hall near Chapel en Ic Frith —On Friday le’nnight. at Laneafter. Mr* Forbes, reliiS of Mr Futhes—Saturday L’nnight. at Lancalter, Mils Barrow, of Caton Green.—On Saturday the 19th iult. at Willow Hall, near Halifax, hy a fjl from hi* horle the preceding day. Mr William Robinfun, partner with Mr. William Kirkby of this town. he kind and benewoent alliilance he received from Mr Henry Lodge, cf ihe above place, wnl be ever remembered by his fritndsand relatives.