

A Descriptive Poem Addressed To Two Ladies At their Return from Viewing The Mines near Whitehaven, to which are added Some Thoughts On Building And Planting To Sir James Lowther of Lowther Hall, Bart. By John Dalton , D.D.
London: Printed for J. And J. Rivington in St. Paul's Church Yard, and R. And J. Dodsley in Pall Mall. MDCCLV.
Preface

 The following Poem was written almost two years ago, and was not intended for the press: but the approbation, with which several friends of the author have perused it, now encourages him to offer it to the public. It was owing to the strong inclination, by which he was prompted to express the pleasure he had received, in a visit paid to his native country after a long absence, from the view of several uncommon, grand, or beautiful scenes of nature and of art, which he here attempts to describe. This pleasure was undoubtedly much benighted by an advantagious comparison of its present state with That, in which he had left it. When we behold rich improvements of a wild and uncultivated soil, in their state of maturity, without having observed their rise and progress, we are struck with wonder and astonishment, to see the face of Nature totally changed. It carries an air of enchantment and romance: and the fabulous and luxuriant description, given is by the Poet, of yellow harvests rising up instantaneously under the wheels of the chariot of Ceres, as it passed over the barren deserts, hardly seems, in the midst of our surprise, too extravagant an image to represent the greatness and seeming suddenness of such a change:
cano rota pulvere labens Sulcatam faecundat humum; flavescit aristis Orbita; surgentes condunt vestigia culmi Versit iter comitata seges. 
 Claudian
 But how great and rational soever the pleasure of such a sight may be, it is still surpassed by that arising from the extraordinary increase of a trading Town, and the new plantations of Houses and Men. Such was the satisfaction the author felt at the appearance of the town and harbour of Whitehaven, after an absence of somewhat less than thirty years. The Mines near that place are remarkable for so many singular circumstances, that they are generally esteemed to be well worth the observation of travellers. But the uncommonness of the occasion, on which this description was addressed by two very amiable Persons, afforded him the means of still heightening the novelty of his subject, and of throwing it into a more agreeable and poetic light by an early introduction of classical allusion and parody. It also gave him( what he valued most) a natural opportunity of expressing his just esteem for a truly respectable family, with whose merit he had long had the happiness of being well acquainted, whose Interest appears to be inseparably connected with That of his native country, and to which It already owed the most considerable advantages.
 Allusion and parody& c.] To save the reader the trouble of turning to books, several of the passages alluded to in the description of the mines are here inserted:
quae te fortuna fatigat, Ut tristes sine sole domos, loca turbida, adires? 
 Virg. AEn. Vi
At cantu commotae Erebi de fedibus imis Umbrae ibant tenues, simulcraq; luce carentum Quin ipsae stupere domus, atq; intima Lethi Tartara, coeruleosq; implexae crinibus angues Eumenides; tenuitq; inihans tria Cerebus ora; Atq; Ixionii cantu rota constitit orbis. 
 Virg. Georg. Lib. Iv.
ulla sit immunis regio, nullamq; sub urbis Pectus inaccessum Veneri. Jam tristis Eryannis Seniat ardores: Acheron, Ditisq, severi ferrea lascivis mollescant corda sagittis. 
 Claud. de Rap. prof. Lib. I.
divino femita gressu Claruit.
Hinc exaudiri gemitus,& saeva sonare Verbera: tum stridor ferri, tractaeq; catenae. 
 Virg. AEn. Lib. Vi
Hine via Tartarii quae fert Acerontis ad undas Turbidus hine coeno rastaq; voragine gurges AEstuat, atq; omnem Cocyto eructat arenam. 
 Virg. AEn. Lib. Vi
 The admirers of the extensive knowledge, unspotted honour, public spirit, and firm adherence to the great and essential interests of the British constitution and Protestant Succession, by which the late Lord Lonsdale was universally distinguished, may perhaps be offended at the author's confirming himself, in what he here says of his Lordship, to his provincial character; to his improvements in husbandry, and his endeavours to introduce manufactures into his own country. His excuse must be, that this was the part of his Lordship's Character which came most properly within the compass of his subject. Besides if the light in which he has endeavoured to place his Example in that particular, could, in any degree, contribute to engage the imitation of young persons of the same rank and fortune in other places, he might then hope that the moral of his poem would appear to be not entirely provincial but national.
 For, during the present melancholy condition, even in an age eminent for charity, of the numerous unemployed Poor of this Kingdom, and the experienced and acknowledged inability of the present laws to provide for their effectual employment at home, and to prevent their crowding into this their great school of idleness and vice, the Metropolis, what can we hope for, to alleviate this misery, but that Noblemen and Gentlemen of considerable estates, daily growing more sensible of the necessity of such a conduct, will lend a like generous attention to eh ignorance and poverty of their respective countrymen? This, as far as the author can presume to judge of so difficult a matter, appears to be the best that can be done, untill the Legislature shall be so happy as to accomplish that great and by some such simple yet comprehensive plan, as was, in a late session of parliament, recommend to their consideration by a Noble Earl; and which met with their most favourable reception at that time, though it has not yet received the sanction of a law.
 This preface must not conclude without a precaution to the Raeder, which may possibly prevent his meeting with an unpleasing disappointment. If, by the imperfect sketch in the following Poem, or by what he may elsewhere hear of the vale of Keswick and lake of Derwentwater, he should be induced to visit the Original, he must not confidently expect to see it exactly in the state described. For, if he goes thither with an imagination glowing warm with classical enthusiasm and expects to find the sylvan shrines of rural divinities wholly undisturbed and unprofaned, he will be much mistaken. Instead of that, he must prepare to be shocked at some late violations if those sacred woods and groves, which had, for ages shaded the side of the surrounding mountains, and( if prose be allowed the expression) the shores and promontories of that lovely lake. For
Where the rude axe with heaved stroke Was never heard the Nymphs to daunt Or fright them from their hallowed haunt,
 there, alas, is now,
The lonely mountains over And the resounding shore 
A voice of weepng heard and loud lamet; From haunted spring and dale, Edged with poplar pale, The parting Genius is with sighting sent With flowers-inwoven tresses torn, The Nymphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn.
 However, for his consolation, he may still, notwithstanding all those profanations, hope to find there an assemblage of such exquisite though different beauties, as will well deserve to be admired by him; as well perhaps as any one part of the inanimate creation.
To Two Ladies At their Return from Viewing The Mines near Whitheaven.

Welcome to light, adventerous pair! Thrice welcome to the balmy air From sulphurous damps in caverns deep, Where subterraneous thunders sleep, Or, waked, with dire AEtnaen sound Bellow the trembling mountain round, 
 From sulphurous damps,& c.] The coals mines near Whitehaven are greatly infested with fulminating damps; large quantities of them being frequently collected in those deserted works, which are not ventilated with perpetual currents of fresh air: and, in such works, they often remain for a long time, without doing any mischief. But when, by some accident, they are set on fire, they then produce dreadful explosions, very destructive to the miners; and bursting out of the pits with great impetuosity, like the fiery eruptions from burning mountains, force along with them ponderous bodies to as great height in the air
Till to the frighted realms of day Through flaming mouths they force their way; From bursting streams, and burning rocks, From nature's fierce intestine shocks; From the dark mansions of despair Welcome once more to light and air! But why explore that world of night Concealed till then from female sight? Such grace and beauty why confine One moment to a dreary mine? Was it because your curious eye The secrets of the Earth would spy, 
 From burning rocks& c.] The coal in these mines hath, several times, been set on fire by the fulminating damp, and hath continued burning for many months; until large streams of water were conducted into the mines, and suffered to fill those parts where the coal was on fire. By such fires, several collieries have been intirely destroyed; of which there are instances near Newcastle, and in other parts of England, and in the shore of Fife in Scotland; in some of which places, the fire has continued burning for ages. But more mines have been ruined by inundations.
How interveined rich minerals glow, How bubbling fountains learn to flow? Or rather that the sons of day Already owned your rightful sway And therefore, like young Ammon, you Another world would fain subdue? What though sage Prospero attend While you the caverned hill descend, Though, warned by him, with bended head You shun the shelving roof, and tread With cautious foot the rugged way, While tapers strive to mimic day? Though he with hundred gates and chains The Demons of the mine restrains, 
 The demons of the mine restrains,& c.] In order to prevent, as much as possible the collieries from being filled with those pernicious damps, if has been found necessary carefully to search for those crevices in coal, from whence they issue out; and at those places, to confine them within a narrow space; and from those narrow spaces in which they are confined, to conduct them through long pipes into the open air; where being set on fire, they consume in perpetual flames, as they continually arise out of the earth.
To whom their parent, jealous Earth, To guard her hidden stores gave birth, At which, while kindred furies sung, With hideous joy pale Orcus rung; Though boiling with vain rage they sit Fixed to the bottom of the pit, While at his beck the spierits of air With breath of heaven their taints repair; Or if theu seek superior skies; Through ways assigned by him they rise Troop after troop at day expire In torments of perpetual fire; Though he with fury-quelling charms The whole infernal host disarms, And summons to your guarded sides A squadron of etherial guides, 
 And summons& c.] Those who have the direction of these deep and extensive works are obliged to use great care and art in keeping them continually ventilated with perpetual currents of fresh air; which afford the miners a constant supply of that vital fluid, and expel out of the mines damps and other noxious exhalations together with such other burnt and foul air; as is become poisonous and unfit for respiration.
You still, when we together view The dreadful enterprize and you, The public care and wonder go Of all above and all below. For at your preference toil is over, The restless miner works no more. Nor strikes the flint, nor whirls the steel Of that strange spark-emitting wheel, Which, formed by Prospero's magic care, Plays harmless in the sulphurous air, 
 Nor strikes the flint& c.] It having been observed by Mr. Spedding, who superintends these collieries, and to whom the author here give the name of Prospero, that the fulminating damp could only be kindled by flame, and that it was not liable to be set on fire but red-hot iron, not by the spark produced by the collision of flint and steel, he invented a machine, in which a steel wheel is turned round with a very rapid motion, and flint are applied thereto, great plenty of fiery sparks are emitted, that afford the miners such a light as enables them to carry on their work in close places, where are the flames of a candle, or lamp, would occasion dreadful explosions. Without some invention of this sort, the working of these mines, so greatly annoyed with their inflameable damps, would long ago have been impracticable.
Without a flame diffuses light, And make the grisly cavern bright. His task secure the miner plies Nor hear Tartarian tempests rise; But quits it now, and hastes away To this great Stygian holiday. Agape the sooty collier stands, His axe suspended in his hands His AEthiopian teeth the while Grin horrible a ghastly smile, To see two goddesses so fair Descend to him from fields of air. No greater wonder seized the abode Of gloomy Dis, the infernal god, With pity when the Orphean lyre Did every iron heart inspire Soothed tortured ghosts with heavenly strains, Of respited eternal pains. 
But on you move through ways less steep To loftier chambers of the deep, Whose jetty pillar seem to groan Beneath a ponderous roof of stone. Then with increasing wonder gaze The dark inextricable maze, Where cavern crossing cavern meets,( City of subterraneous streets!) Where a triple story end Mines that over mines by flights ascend. 
 But on you move,& c.] The reader may suppose that he hath entered these mines by an opening in the bottom of a hill, and hath already passed through a long adit hewn in the rock, and arched over with rock which is the principal road into them for men, and for horses; and which, by a deep descent, leads down to the lowest vein of coal. Being arrived at the coal he may suppose himself still to descend, by ways less steep, till, after a journey of a mile and a half, he arrives at the profoundest parts of the mine. The greatest part of this descent is through spacious galleries, which continually intersect other galleries; all the coal being cut away except large pillars, which in deep parts of the mine, are three yards high, and about twelve yards square at the base; such great strength being there required to support the ponderous roof.
 A triple story,& c.] There are here three strata of coal, which lie at a considerable distance one above another. The mines wrought in these parallel strata have a communication by pits, and are compared by the author to the different stories of a building.
But who in order can relate What terrors still you steps await? How issuing from the sulphurous coal Thick Acherontic rivers roll? How in close center of these mines, Where orient morning never shines, Nor the winged Zephyrs eere resort, Infernal Darkness holds her court? How, breathless, with faint pace, and slow Through her grim sultry realm you go, Till purer rising gales dispense Their cordials to the sickening sense? 
 Thick Acherontic rivers,& c.] The water that flows from the coal is collected into one stream, which runs towards the fire-engines. The water is yellow and turbid, from a mixture of ocher, and so very corrosive, that it quickly consumes iron.
 How, breathless, with faint pace, and slow,& c.] Those who descend into these mines, find them most close and sultry in the middle parts, there are most remote from the pits and adits, and perceive them to grow cooler the nearer they approach to those pits which are sunk to the deepest parts of the mines; down which pits, large streams of fresh air are made to descend, and up which, the water is drawn out, by means of fire engines.
Your progress next the wondering muse Through narrow galleries pursues; Where Earth, the miner's way to close, Did once his massy rock oppose In vain: his daring axe he heaves, To' wards the black view a passage cleaves: Dissevered by the nitrous blast, The stubborn barrier bursts at last. Thus, urged by Hunger's clamorous call, Incessant Labour conquers all. 
 Where Earth,& c.] The vein of coal is not always regularly continued in the same inclined plain, but, instead, thereof, the miners frequently meet with hard rock which interrupts their further progress. At such places there seem to have been breaks in the earth, from the surface downwards; one part of the earth seeming to have sunk down, while the part adjoining has remained in its ancient situation. In some of the places, the earth may have sunk ten or twenty fathoms, or more; in other places less than one fathom. These breaks, the miners call Sykes; and when they come at one of them, their first care is to discover whether the strata in the part adjoining be higher or lower than in the part where they have been working; or( to use their own terms) whether the coal be cast down, or cast up. If it be cast down, they sink a pit to it; but if it be cast up to any considerable height, they are oftentimes obliged, with great labour and expence, as at the place here described, to carry forward a level of long gallery through the rock until they again arrive at the stratum of coal.
In spacious rooms once more you tread, Whole roofs with figures quaint overspread Wild nature paints with various dyes, With such as tinge the evening skies. A different scene to this succeeds: A dreary road abruptly leads Down to the cold and humid caves, Where hissing fall the turbid waves. Resounding deep through glimmering shades The clank of chains your ears invades. Through pits profound from distant day Scarce travels down light's languid ray. High on huge axis heaved above, See ballanceed beams unwearyed move! 
 Whole roofs,& c.] These colours, with which the free-stone roof of the mine is beautifully variegated in many places, and which have the appearance of clouds, seem to proceed from exudations of salts, ocher and other earthy substances.
While pent within the iron womb Of boiling cauldrons pants for room Expanded steam and shrinks or swells, As cold restrains, or heat impells, 
 While pent within the iron womb,& c.] The author hath here taken occasion to celebrate the fire-engine, the invention of which does such honour to this nation. He has endeavoured to describe, in a poetic manner, the effects of the elastic steam and the great power of the atmosphere; which by their alternate actions, give force and motion to the beam of this engine, and by it, to the pump rods, which elevate the water through tubes, and discharge it out the mine. It appears, from pretty exact calculations, that it would require about 550 men, or a power equal to that of 110 horses, to work the pump of one of the largest fire-engines now in use,( the diameter of whose cylinder is seventy inches) and thrice that number of men to keep an engine of this size constantly at work. And that as much water may be raised by an engine of this size kept constantly at work, as can be drawn up by 2520 men with rollers and buckets, after the manner now daily practiced in many mines; or as much as can be borne upon the shoulders of twice that number of men; as is said to be done in some of the mines of Peru. So great is the power of the air in one of those engines. There are four fire-engines belonging to this colliery; which, when all at work, discharge from it about 1228 gallons every minute, at thirteen strokes; 1,768,320 gallons every twenty - four hours. By the four here employed, nearly twice the above mentioned quantity of water might be discharged from mines that are not above sixty or seventy fathoms deep, which depth is rarely exceeded in the Newcastle collieries, or in any of the English collieries, those of Whitehaven excepted. the reader may find an account of Savery's engines in Harris's Lexicon Technicum. Many great improvements have been made to it since, and are daily making; several of which are related in the Philosophical Transactions. The best account of it, its various improvements and uses is, I think, in Dr. Desagulier's course of experimental philosophy. vol. Ii.
And, ready for the vacant space, Incumbent Air resumes his place, Depressing with stupendous force Whatever resists his downward course, Pumps moved by rods from ponderous beams Arrest the unsuspecting streams, Which soon a sluggish pool would lie; Then spout them foaming to the sky Sagacious Savery! Taught by thee Discordant elements agree, Fire, water, air, heat, cold unite, And lifted in one service fight, Pure streams to thirty cities send Or deepest mines from flood defend Man's richest gift thy work will shine; Rome's aqueducts were poor to thine! 
At last the long descent if over; Above your heads the bellows roar; High over your heads they roar in vain; Not all the surges of the main The dark recess can eere disclose, Rocks heaped in rocks the attempt oppose: Thrice Dover's cliff from you the tides With interposing roof divides! From such abyss restored to light, Invade no more the realms of night. For heroines it may well suffice Once to have left their azure skies. 
 Above your heads,& c.] The mines are here sunk to a depth of one under and thirty fathoms and are extended under the sea to places where there is above them sufficient depth of water for ships of large burden. These are the deepest coal mines that have hitherto been wrought; and perhaps the miners have not in any other part of the globe, penetrated to so great a depth below the surface of the sea; the very deep mines in Hungary, Peru and elsewhere, being situated in mountainous countries, where the surface of the earth is elevated to a great height above the level of the ocean.
heroes themselves, in days of yore, Bold as they were, achieved no more. Without a dread descent you may The mines in their effects survey As with an easy eye look down On that fair port and happy town. Where late along the naked strand, The fisher's cot did lonely stand. And his poor bark unsheltered lay, Of every swelling surge the prey, Now lofty piers their arms extend, And with their strong embraces bend Round crowded fleets, which safe defy All storms that rend the wintry sky, And bulwarks beyond bulwarks chain The fury of the roaring main. The peopled vale fair dwellings fill, And lengthening streets ascend the hill; 
Where Industry intent to thrive, Brings all her honey to the hive, Religion strikes with reverent awe, Example works the effect of law, And Plenty's flowing cup we see Untainted yet by Luxury. These are the glories of the mine! Creative Commerce, these are thine! 
 The glories of the mine,& c.] These mines were fist wrought, for foreign consumption by Sir John Lowther, Bart. one of the Lords of the Admiralty in the reign of King William; a person of great abilities and a generous benefactor to his native country; who, by the encouragements which he gave to tradesmen and artificers of all kinds to settle at Whitehaven, may be esteemed the founder of that how. His son and successor, Sir James Lowther, pursuing the same plan, has brought these mines to their present state of perfection. It has been computed, that these two gentlemen, in the compass of a century( which time they have enjoyed these mines) have expended in one of them only upwards of half a million sterling. -- The money returned hither for coals exported hence, greatly contributes to enable this remote country to pay those large sums, that are continually drained out of it in taxes and customs, in rents to absentees, and for clothing and various other necessary commodities, which those parts do not afford. -- By this trade, and its consequences, the town of Whitehaven has been raised, from very low beginnings to its present state; the country round it improved; and great numbers of hardy sailors, and other useful artificers trained up to serve their King and country in the navy, as well as in the home and foreign trades of the kingdom.
Here while delighted you impart Delight to every eye and heart, Behold, grown jealous of your stay, Your native Stream his charms display To court you to his banks again; Now wind in wanton waves his train, Now spread into a crystal plain; Then hid by pendent rocks would steal, But tuneful Falls his course reveal, As down the bending vale he roves Thro Yanwath woods and Buckholme's groves; Whose broad overpowering boughs beneath Warbling he flows, while Zephyrs breathe. Here softly swells the spacious lawn, Where bounds the buck, and skips the fawn, 
 your native stream,& c.] The River Lowther.
 Then bid by pendent rocks,& c.] See in Mr Dalton's drawings, a view of this river near the bridge and church of Askham.
 As down the bending vale& c.] See his view( taken from Clifton) of the river winding between Yanwath and Buckholme woods round the Elysian fields.
 See his view, on a small scale taken from Askham Fell, of the situation of Lowther Hall, park etc. terminated by a long range of very high mountains called Cross Fell.
or couched beneath the hawthorn trees, In dappled groups enjoy the breeze. Amid yon sunny plain, alone, To patriarchal reverence grown, An oak for many an age has stood Himself a widely waving wood, While men and herds, with swift decay, Race after race, have passed away. See still his central trunk sustain Huge boughs, which round overhang the plain, And hospitable shade inclose, Where flocks and herds at ease repose! There the brown fells ascend the sky, Below, the green inclosures lye; Along their sloping sides supine The peaceful villages recline: 
On azure roofs bright sun beams play, And make the meanest dwelling gay. Thus oft the wife all-ruling mind Is to the lowly cottage kind, Bids there Hiss beams of favour fall, While sorrow clouds the lofty hall, That This may hear his awful frown, And grateful That his goodness own. If, grown familiar to the sight, Lowther itself should less delight, To chance the scene: To nature's pride, Sweet Keswick's vale, the use will guide. The muse who trod the inchanted ground, Who sailed the wondrous lake around With you will haste once more to hail The beauteous brook of Borrodale. 
 On azure roofs& c.] The houses of this country are covered with a beautiful blue slate.
From savage parent gentle stream! Be thou the Muse's favourite theme: O soft insinuating glide Silent along the meadow's side Smooth over the sandy bottom pass Resplendent all through fluid glass, Unless upon they yielding breast Their painted heads the lillies rest, To where in deep capacious bed The widely liquid lake is spread. Let other streams rejoyce to roar Down the rough rocks of dread Lodore Rush raving on with boisterous sweep, And foaming rend the frighted deep, They gentle Genius shrinks away From such a rude unequal fray; 
 Of dread Lodore,& c.] A very high cascade here fall sin to the lake of Derwentwater near where Borrodale Beck( or brook) enters into it as is described above.
Thro thine own native dale, where rise Tremendous rocks amid the skies, Thy waves with patience slowly wind, Till they the smoothest channel find, Soften the horrors of the scene, And through confusion flow serene. Horrors like these at first alarm, But soon with savage grandeur charm And raise to noblest though the mind: Thus by thy fall, Lodore, reclined The craggy cliff, impendent wood, Whose shadows mix over half the flood, The gloomy clouds, which solemn sail, Scarce lifted by the languid gale Over the caped hill, and darkened vale; The ravening kite, and bird of Jove, Which round the aerial ocean rove, And, floating on the billowy sky, With full expanded pennons fly, 
Their fluttering or their bleating prey Thence with death-dooming eye survey; Channels by rocky torrents torn, Rocks to the lake in thunder born Or such as over our heads appear Suspended in mid career, To start again at His command, Who rules fire, water, air and land, I view with wonder and delight, A pleasing, though an awful sight: For, see with them, the verdant Isles Soften with more delicious smiles, More tempting twine their opening bowers, More lively glow their purple flowers, More smoothly slopes the border gay, In fairer circle bends the bay, 
 Channels by rocky torrents torn,& c.] For an account of an extraordinary storm in a part of this country called St. John's Vale, but which numerous fragments of rocks were driven down from the mountains, along with cataracts of water, see a letter from Cockermouth, inserted in Gentleman's Magazine of October 1754.
And last, to fix our wandering eyes, Thy roofs, O Keswick, brighter rise The lake and lofty hills between, Where Giant Skiddow shuts the scene Supreme of mountain, Skiddow, hail! To whom all Britain sinks a vale! Lo, his imperial brow I see From foul usurping vapours free!' Twere glorious now is side to climb, Boldly to scale his top sublime, And thence-- My Muse, these flights forbear, Nor with wild raptures tire the fair. Hills, rocks and dale have been too long The subject of thy rambling song. 
 Where Giant Skiddow,& c.] With the above - mentioned Drawings the curious reader may see three different Views of this beautiful lake, all exactly copied after nature. The first, of the whole lake, taken from Lodore, and terminated by Skiddow. The second, taken from the parsonage-house, and terminated by Borrodale. The third, from Hill Top, with Caslow Cragg appearing on the foreground; and also One of the cascade.
Far other scenes Their minds employ, And move their hearts with softer joy. For pleasures They need never roam, Their with affection swell, at home. Thrice happy They at home to prove A Parent's and a Brother's love, Her bright example pleased to trace, Learn every virtue every grace Which lustre give in female life To daughter, sister, parent, wife; Grateful to see her guardian care A tender father's loss repair, And rising far over grief and pain, The glories of her race maintain. Their ancient feats lets other fly To strole beneath a foreign sky, Or loytering in their villas stay, Till useless summers waste away, 
While, hopeless of their lord's return, The poor exhausted tenants mourn; From Lowther She distains to run To bask beneath a southern sun, Opens the hospitable door, Welcomes the friend, relieves the poor, Bides tenants share the liberal board, And early know and love their lord Whose courteous deeds to all extend, And make each happy guest a friend. To smiling Earth the grateful Main Thus gives her gathered streams again In showers on hill and dale and plain. O May the virtues, which adorn With modest beams his rising morn, Unclouded grow to perfect day! May he with bounty's brightest ray 
The native's chear, enrich the soil, With arts improve, reward their toil, Glad with kind warmth our northern sky, And generous Lonsdale's loss supply. 
 __ enrich the soil& c.] The late Lord Lonsdale spared no expence of money or time to introduce woollen and linen Manufactures into the county of Westmoreland; to improve the native in eth art of husbandry by his own example, and encourage them by suitable rewards. Besides conferring premiums on those who excelled, he also, in order to conquer the forces of ignorance and prejudice, more obstinate than perhaps the soil, apprenticed out into neigbouring counties, which were more skilled in agriculture, several sons of his tenants for that laudable purpose; and laid them under obligation to return again, and exercise that Art, for a certain term in their own country.
Here the Author thinks himself bound to acknowledge, that he owes the Explanatory Notes, on the description of the mines to Dr, Brownrigg of Whitehaven. The kind and friendly design with which they were sent to him, will best appear from the letter which accompanyed them; and which is here subjoined. If the inquisitive reader should desire to see a larger specimen of that Gentleman's knowledge of philosophical and commercial subjects, he would recommend him to a treatise entitled" The art of making Common Salt, as now practised in" most parts of the world; with several improvements proposed in that art, for the" use of the British dominions, by William Brownrigg , M.D. and F.R. s." but that it is now he believes out of print. However he may have his curiosity in some degree gratified by a good account of that work, given by a Mr. Watson in the Philosophical Transactions, No 487, for the months of April, may and part of June, 1748.
A Letter to the Author. Sir,

I give you thanks for the pleasure I have received in the perusal of your poem, heightened perhaps by a fondness for every thing that you have there so eloquently described. I am however apprehensive, that such of your readers as are unacquainted with your subject, may not have the same relish for several parts of your performance. Much of the pleasure which we receive from descriptions of the country must arise from recalling to mind those rural scenes that have given us delight, and from comparing them with their representations; and observing with what art and judgement those representations are copied after nature. And although the scenes delineated in your poetic land skips, seem as beautifully varied, and as well adapted to give pleasure to the judicious as those that are most admired in other countries, and may serve as excellent models for the embellishment of rural situations: yet it must be owned that, in this part of your poem, you labour under some disadvantage, from the choice of your subject in a retired part; which does not fall so much under the eye of the curious as Windsor Forest and some other places, whose charms have been displayed by some of our best poets. However, very happily for you, though your Brother has devoted the largest share of his time and study this summer to adorning our New Church with his Painting, yet he has found leisure to make very exact Drawings of the paces your describe. These, as they are the best comment on this part of your work, will, I hope, in a great measure remove the difficulty here hinted at; and the Public will have the pleasure of seeing the sister arts mutually reflecting light upon each other, and conspiring, by a friendly emulation, to set off these beautiful scenes to the best advantage.
Another part of your performance will, I am afraid, be attended with greater difficulties. Your descriptions of the country must be generally understood; and, like a fine picture, will be admired by many who do not know the original; although they will be read with most delight by those who are best acquainted with your subject. But few of your readers will have such a knowledge of mines as will enable them to follow you through their dark and intricate labyrinths. More especially, as these are a subject that has not, I think, before been attempted in verse. And yet they seem well to deserve the notice of our poets, as they abound in objects proper to excite admiration, and are one great source of the wealth and power of these kingdoms. Here it may be worth the while to stop a little, and reflect on the labour and dangers that They sustain, who, from the mines supply us with many necessaries and conveniences of life: what multitudes of people by them are maintained: what efforts of human reason are there exerted, in the most ingenious inventions: and what immense treasures are thence raised, by which numberless wheels are set in motion in the complicated machine of commerce. the subterranean regions, hitherto delineated y the luxuriant fancies of poets, are widely different from these great funds of treasure. And as the veracity of those poets, who have descended into the lower regions, hath often been called in question, some may even suspect that you also have indulged yourself in this poetic licence, and have related such things of these darks abodes as would best appear in verse, rather than as you really found them in nature. To obviate which suspicions, may it not be necessary to produce authentic vouchers of your having faithfully described such objects as occurred to you in the coal-mines? Had Cervantes taken this method, his wonderful account of a certain cave would perhaps have met with more credit than it now does, notwithstanding his artful insinuation of its having been believed by a very great scholar. The Explanatory Notes, which, agreeable to your request I send enclosed, and which you are at liberty to publish with your poem, may serve as a sort of circumstantial proof of the truth of your descriptions. You will readily perceive that the nature of your design would not allow me to write a history of collieries, or a philosophical dissertation on damps. I have therefore contented myself with relating a few facts which may throw some light on this part of your poem, and may help to render you description of the mines intelligible to your readers.
 I am,& c
W. Brownrigg
Some Thoughts On Building And Planting To Sir James Lowther of Lowther Hall, Bart. 
To Sir James Lowther, Bart. 
When stately structures Lowther grace, Worthy the Owner and the Place, Fashion will not the works direct, But Reason be the architect. Ready each bounteous Order stands To execute what She commands. The Doric grave, where weight requires, To give his manly strength aspires; 
 The Doric Grave, where weight requires.] In ea aede cum volussent columnas collocare, non habentes symmetrias earum,& quaerentes quibus rationibus efficere possent, ut& ad onus ferendum esset idonae,& in aspectu probatam haberent venustatem: dimensi sunt virilis pedis vestigium,& cum invenissent pedem sextam partem asse altitudinis in homine, ita in columnam transtulerunt:& qua crassitudine fecerunt basin scapi, tantum eam fexies cum capitulo in altitudinem extulerunt. Ita Dorica colmna virilis corporis proportionem,& firmutatem& venustatem inaedificiis praestare coepit. Vitruv. L. Iv C .i p. 60
The light Corinthian, richly gay, Does all embellishments display: Between them see, with matron air, The Ionic, delicately fair! These their abundant aid will lend To answer every structure's end To a building can a mode belong But Gay, or Delicate, or Strong? 
 The light Corinthian,& c.] tertium vero, quod Corinthium dicitur, viginalis habet gracilitatis imitationem; quod virgines propter aetatis teneritatem gracilioribus membris figuratae, effectus recipiunt in ornatu venustiores. Ejus qutum capituli prima inventio. etc. Ibid.
 Between them see,& c.] Junoni, Dianae, Libero Patri, caeterifq; Diis qui eadem sunt similitudine, si aedes Ionicae construerentur, habita erit ratio mediocritatis, quid& ab fevero more Doricorum& a teneritate Corinthiorum, temperabitur earum institutio proprietatis. Ibid.
 The Ionic,& c.] Item postea Dianae constituere aedem quaerentes, novi generis speciem, iifdem vestigiis ad muliebrem transtulerunt gracilitatem:& fecerunt primum columnae crassitudinem altatudinis octava parte: ut haberent speciem ecelsiorem, basi spiram supposuerunt pro calceo, capitulo volutas, uti capillamento concrispatos cincinnos praependentes dextra ac finitra collocaverunt,& cymatiss& encarpis pro crinibus dispositis, frontes ornaverunt: truncoq; toto strias, uti stolarum rugas matronali more dimiferunt. Ibid.
Why search we then for Orders new, Rich in these all-comprising few, But that the standard rules of Greece Disdain to humour wild caprice? They Fancy's wanton freaks control, In every part consult the whole, Teach art to dress, and not disguise, Seek lasting fame, not short surprise, And all Adornings to produce From real or from seeming Use, The Place's Genius to revere, And, as he bids, the structure rear. Smiles He over fragrant Flora's bloom? Never shock him with a grotto's gloom. 
 -- from real or from seeming use]-- quaemadmodum mutuli cantheriorum projecturae ferunt imaginem, fic in Ionicis denticuli ex projecturis asserum habent imitationem. Itaque in Graecis operibus nemo sub mutulo denticulos constituit: norenim possunt subtuc cantherios asseres esse. Wuod ergo supra cantherios& templa in veritae debet esse collocatum, id in imaginibus, si infra constitutum fuerit, mendosam habebit operis rationem: etc.
Nor with smooth slender columns mock His roughness in the rugged rock. Nor by trim steps hand gently down( Like dainty dames in formal town) The nimble Naiades, who bound Over native rocks with sprightly sound. Nor roving Dryades confine Precisely to a single line, Straight, circular or serpentine All forms arise at Nature's call, And Use can beauty give to all. Non eere disgust the judging mind, When varyed well, or well combined. This Lowther's Noble Planter knew, And kept it in his constant view. So sweetly wild his woods are strown, Nature mistakes them for her own, 
yet all to proper foil and site So suited, doubly they delight. While tender plants in vales repose, Where the mild Zephyr only blows, Embattles Firs bleak hills adorn, Under whose safe-guard smiles the corn. Who builds or plants this rule should know, From Truth And Use All Beauties Flow.
 From truth,& c.] quod non potest in veritae fieri, id non putaverunt in imaginibus factum, posse certam rationem habere. Omnia emin certa proprietate,& a veris naturae deductis moribus, traduxerunt in perum perfectiones:& ea probaverunt quuorum explicationes in disputationibus rationem possunt habere vertitatis. Vitruv. Lib. Iv. C. ii. p. 67. Edit de Laet.
 and Use,& c.] See the Idea of Beauty explained by the great Dr. Berkley in the Minute Philosopher. Dial. Iii. Sect. vii, ix. Edit. 3. 1752.
Finis


