

Letter Xvii. 
From Glenwelt to Brampton, I passed over some moors of an excellent sandy loam, and yet quite uncultivated. The inclosed lands are good, lett from 10 s. to 25 s. per acre, farms from 10 l. to 100 l.
At Carlisle is a considerable stampery of printed cottons, established by some manufacturers from Newcastle; the labourers in it earn from 1 s. to 3 s. a day. Also a manufacture of checks, which employs many looms; the earnings from 1 s. to 1 s. 3 d. a day.
Three miles to the south of Carlisle, land letts about 15 s. an acre at an average. Farms from 20 l. to 200 l. a year. In as many more, they are not so large, from 30 l. to 120 l. and rents from 2 s. to 20 s. an acre.
About High Ascot the soil varies from a light loam and gravel to a clay, letts from 10 s. to 20 s. an acre.
Farms from 10 l. to 100 l. a year.
The courses are,
 1. Fallow 2. Wheat 3. Oats 4. Pease,	
And,
 1. Turneps 2. Barley 3. Clover for three years.	
For wheat they plough three or four times, sow three bushels and reap about twenty. For barley they plough twice, sow three bushels, and reckon the average produce the same as of wheat. They stir but once for oats, sow seven bushels and an half, and gain fifty in return. For pease they likewise plough but once, sow three bushels, and gain at a medium fifteen. They stir twice or thrice for rye, sow three bushels, generally in February or March,( a very remarkable time,) and reap twenty. They cultivate some few turneps; plough three or four times for them; a few farmers hoe them: The medium value they reckon at 50 s. an acre; and use them for cattle and sheep. Clover they sow with barley or oats, generally mow it for hay, and get about a ton at a mowing.
For potatoes they plough thrice, give the land a good coat of dung; chuse the dryest soils for them; and lay the slices in every other furrow, one foot from plant to plant. On coming up they plough between the rows, to destroy the weeds; a practise one would suppose sufficient to introduce a good turnep culture universally; for those who see the effects of this operation on potatoes might surely extend the idea to turneps. -- They get 300 bushels per acre, and sow rye after them.
Good grass letts at 20 s. an acre; they apply it chiefly to dairying, and reckon that an acre and a half will feed a cow through the summer; and an acre carry four sheep: Very few of them manure their grass. Their breed of cattle is the long horned, which they account much the best. Their beasts they fatten to about forty stone.
The product of a cow they reckon at 50 s. or 3 l. that a middling one will give from two to four gallons of milk a day, and make from four to seven pounds of butter a week. They have no notion of keeping hogs in consequence of cows; a dairy of twenty not maintaining above one or two. The winter food of their cows is straw or hay, a ton and a half of which is the quantity they commonly suppose a cow to eat in the winter; but if clover hay is used, one ton is enough. -- The summer joist is 25 s. and that of winter 30 s. and 35 s. They reckon ten cows the business of a dairy maid.
Their flocks of sheep rise from 20 to 120, and the profit they reckon at 6 s. a head; lamb 5 s. and wool 1 s. They keep them the year round on the commons:-- The average weight of fleeces 4 lb.
In the management of their arable lands they reckon six horses necessary for 100 acres of arable; they use two in a plough, and do an acre a day. The annual expence of keeping horses they reckon at 5 l. 10 s. or 6 l. The joist in summer 40 s. in winter 50 s. They break up their stubbles for a fallow in February; plough six inches deep: The price of ploughing 5 s. an acre; and of a cart and horse and driver 2 s. or 3 s. a day. They know nothing of cutting straw for chaff.
Three hundred pounds they reckon necessary for a man to stock a farm of 100 l. a year.
Tythes are generally gathered. Poor rates 6 d. in the pound; the employment of the women and children spinning and knitting.
The farmers carry their corn nine miles.
The general oeconomy will appear from the following sketches of farms.
 100 acres in all 60 arable 40 grass £ .70 rent 4 horses 6 cows 1 fatting beast 10 young cattle 80 sheep 1 man 1 boy 1 maid.	
Another,
 140 acres in all 86 arable 54 grass £ .95 rent 7 horses 12 cows 2 fatting beasts 22 young cattle	
 30 sheep 1 man 2 boys 1 maid 1 labourer.	
Another,
 125 acres in all 55 arable 70 grass £ .70 rent 4 horses 9 cows 26 young cattle 2 fatting beasts 50 sheep 1 man 1 boy 1 maid 1 labourer.	
Another,
 80 acres in all 40 grass 40 arable £ .70 rent 5 cows 1 fatting beast 13 young cattle 30 sheep	
 1 man 1 maid 1 boy.	
Another,
 50 acres in all 20 arable 30 grass £ .35 rent 3 cows 1 fatting beast 2 young cattle 20 sheep 1 boy.	
Labour 
 In harvest, 4 s. a week, and board.	 In hay time, 1 s. a day, and board.	 In winter, 8 d. and ditto.	 Mowing grass, 2 s. an acre.	 Ditching, 3 ½ d. to 8 d. a rood.	 Head man's wages, 10 l, to 12 l. Next ditto, 7 l. to 7 l. 7 s. Boy of ten or twelve years, 25 s. Dairy maids, 2 l. 10 s. to 3 l. Other ditto, 2 l. 5 s. to 2 l. 10 s. Women in harvest, 4 s. a week, and board.	 In hay time, 8 d. and board a day.	
Implements,& c 
 No waggons.	 A cart,( one horse) 3 l. to 5 l. A plough, 1 l. 11 s. 6 d. A harrow, 1 l. 10 s. No rollers.	 A scythe, 3 s. 6 d. A spade, 2 s. 6 d. Shoeing, 2 s.	
Provisions,& c 
 Bread-- barley, and barley and rye, ¾ d. Cheese, 2 d. Butter, 6 d. Beef, 3 d. Mutton, 2 d. Veal, 2 ½ d. Pork, 4 d. Milk, ½ d. per pint.	 Potatoes, 4 d. Candles, 7 d. Soap, 7 d. Labourer's house-rent, 10 s. to 20 s.	
Building. 
 Oak timber, 8 d. to 2 s. Ash, 1 s. 6 d.	
 Mason 1 s. per day, and board.	 Carpenter, ditto.	 Slate at the quarry, - 0 16 s. 0 Laying, - - 0 13 0 Leading eight miles, 1 4 0 Total per rood, 2 13 0 Stone walls, 6 d. a yard workmanship, and 1 s. 6 d. every thing except lime.	
About Penrith there are variations, which deserve noting-- The soil is of divers sorts, clay, sand, gravel, loam, and black moory earth. The medium rent of that inclosed is 15 s. the uninclosed, 2 s. 6 d. and 3 s. 6 d.
Farms rise from 10 l. a year, so high as 700 l. but in general from 80 l. to 150 l. Their courses are,
 1. Turneps 2. Barley 3. Clover 4. Wheat 5. Oats.	
Another,
 1. Oats on the grass broke up.	 2. Barley 3. Oats 4. Oats	
 5. Pease 6. Barley.	
This is capital indeed! but very common; for much land, even within two or three miles of Penrith, hath been sown every year with either barley, oats, or pease, for these seventy years. This information astonished me; I inquired the produce on such land, and found it reckoned as good, upon the whole, as other soils, managed upon more modern principles; five or six for one of oats, and when wheat happens to be sown, ten or eleven for one. Fallowing is a new fashion, and not perfectly relished by the new farmers yet.
In a common way they generally plough for wheat from three to six times, sow two bushels about Michaelmas, and gain, upon an average, about three quarters. For barley they plough from once to thrice, sow two bushels and a half in April or May, and gain about 25. Sometimes barley is sown on new broke up land, and the produce 50 bushels. They give but one stirring for oats, sow four bushels before barley sowing, and get 28 in return. For pease they give but one earth, sow two bushels, and get in return about 16; generally use the grey rouncivals. They give from three to five ploughings for rye, sow two bushels, the crop about 24.
For turneps they give three or four earths, never hoe, and reckon the average value per acre at 50 s. use them for sheep, and fatting of beasts. Clover they sow with either barley or oats, generally mow it once,( three times have been known,) and get two ton of hay per mowing.
They prepare for potatoes by ploughing twice or thrice; dung the land with long horse dung; lay the setts in every other furrow, ten inches asunder, and hand-hoe between them if weedy; sometimes they horse-hoe them: If the land is designed for wheat, they lime it about Midsummer, while the potatoes are growing. The crops rise to 200 bushels per acre, but the average about 120; price about 2 s. a bushel.
Lime is their principal manure, though but of a few years standing: They lay 90 bushels per acre on their arable lands; costs them from 1 ½ d. to 3 d. per bushel, besides leading; they lay it on every fallow: They likewise use it on their meadows, and find it to answer well. But dung they reckon much better for everything. They pare and burn a little, at the expence of 24 s. an acre. No folding sheep, nor chopping stubbles. Stack their hay in buildings.
Good grass letts from 15 s. to 20 s. an acre: They use it both for dairying and fatting beasts; reckon that an acre will summer feed a cow, or feed five sheep. Their breed of cattle the long horned, which they think much the best; their oxen they fat to about 40 stone.
The product of a cow they calculate at 4 l. 10 s. and generally have two firkins of butter from each: the medium quantiy per week about 7 lb. but sometimes 14 lb. per cow. Thet keep but few swine in proportion to their dairies, not above two to ten cows. The winter food is straw and hay; of the latter about a ton a head. They reckon a dairy maid can manage ten cows. 25 or 30 s. the summer joist. In winter they keep them all in the house.
They reckon 3 l. the profit on summer fatting a beast of fifty stone. Swine fat from 50 s. to 4 l. 4 s. a head.
Their flocks of sheep vary greatly; from 40 to 3000: The profit they reckon 5 s. each; that is, lamb 4 s. and wool 1 s. They feed them both winter and spring on the commons. The average of the fleeces 3 lb.
Thet reckon six horses necessary for the management of 100 acres of arable land; use two or four in a plough, as the soil is, and do three acres in two days. They account the expence of keeping a horse at 6 l. a year. The summer joist 2 l. 2 s.
They do not begin to fallow till after the barley sowing. The price per acre of ploughing 5 s. and 5 s. 6 d. and the common depth four inches.
They know nothing of cutting straw for chaff. The hire of a one horse cart 2 s. 6 d. a day.
Three hundred pounds they assert is a sum sufficient for stocking a farm of 100 l. a year.
Land sells in general at about thirty years purchase.
Tythes in general gathered.
Poor rates at Penrith 1 s. 3 d. in the pound. In the country parishes 6 d. and upwards, but in some nothing at all. The employment of the women and children spinning, and some knitting: All drink tea.
Many estates from 40 l. to 200 l. a year.
The corn is generally brought to Penrith, and sent to Kendal by carriers.
The following are particulars of several farms.
 2000 acres, all grass p £ .200 rent 5 horses 20 cows 40 young cattle 2000 sheep 1 man 1 boy 2 maids 4 labourers.	
Another,
 100 acres in all 40 arable 60 grass £ .75 rent 6 horses 10 cows 4 fatting beasts 24 young cattle 100 sheep 1 man 1 maid 1 boy 1 labourer.	
Another,
 240 acres in all 120 arable 120 grass £ .100 rent 8 horses 12 cows 8 fatting beasts 30 young cattle 200 sheep 1 man 1 boy 2 maids 2 labourers.	
Another,
 80 acres in all 60 grass 20 arable £ .55 rent 3 horses 4 cows 10 young cattle 1 boy 1 maid.	
Labour. 
 In harvest, 1 s. 6 d. and beer.	 In hay-time, 1 s. 3 d. and ditto.	
 In winter, 10 d. and ditto.	 Reaping corn, 3 s. to 5 s. Mowing grass, 1 s. to 2 s. 6 d. Ditching, 8 d. a rood.	 Threshing wheat, 2 d. to 2 ½ d. - - - - - - barley, 1 ½ d. - - - - - - oats, 1 ½ d. Head man's wages, 12 l. to 14 l. Next ditto, 9 l. Boy of ten or twelve years, 3 l. Dairy maid, to 6 l. Other maids, 3 l. to 4 l. Women per day, in harvest, 10 d. and beer.	 In hay-time, 8 d. and ditto.	 In winter, 6 d. and ditto.	
Implements,& c 
 No waggons.	 A cart, 4 l. A plough, 1 l. 11 s. 6 d. A harrow, 16 s. A roller, 10 s. 6 d. A scythe, 2 s. 6 d. to 4 s. A spade, 2 s. 6 d. to 3 s. 6 d. For ploughs, the farmers find their own iron.	 Shoeing, 2 s.	
Provisions,& c 
 Bread-- oats, and barley and rye mixed; cost ½ d. ¾ d. and 1 d. per lb. Cheese, 2 d. Butter, 6 d. 18 oz. Beef, 2 ½ d. Mutton, 2 ½ d. Veal, 2 d. Pork, 3 d. Milk, 1 d. three pints skimmed.	 Potatoes, 3 d. Candles, 7 d. Soap, 7 d. Labourer's house rent, 20 s.------ Firing, 30 s.	
Building. 
 Bricks, 11 s. per thousand.	 Slate, 1 s. 6 d. per hundred-- It is at quarry, per rood - - 0 12 s. 0 Leading four miles, 0 12 0 Laying on, - - 0 12 0------ £. 1 16 0 Stone walls, 6 d. a yard work; and getting and leading, 1 s. 8 d. Oak, 9 d. to 3 s.	
 Ash, 6 d. to 2 s. Elm, ditto.	 A mason 1 s. 8 d. per day, Carpenter, 1 s. 8 d. Thatcher, 1 s. 6 d.	
 Keswick had too long been an object of desire with me to neglect the opportunity of seeing it: I went thither from Penrith: But before I attempt any thing of a description, let me mention matters of husbandry. The country between these towns is various, much of it moors, and quite uncultivated, though evidently capable of it, which is melancholy to reflect on. About Keswick, the husbandry is as follows:
Farms, from 10 l. to 80 l. a year.
The soil is both a hazel mould, sand, gravel, and moory; the first but shallow: The inclosed letts from 20 s. to 30 s. a right of commonage included.
Their Course,
 1. Oats on turf 2. Fallow 3. Barley 4. Wheat 5. Oats, and grass.	
They plough twice for wheat, sow two bushels and a half, about Michaelmas, and reap 35 to 40, upon an average. They also stir twice for barley, sow six bushels in April or May, and reap 40 in return. For oats they stir but once, sow seven bushels, and gain 50. They have no beans, very few pease, and as little rye. They stir three times for turneps, hoe them once or twice; the average value about 55 s. use them for feeding sheep and stall-fatting oxen. They know but little of clover; one or two farmers have tried it with barley, but found it good for nothing: It must have been upon strange land.
They have two ways of cultivating potatoes, by ploughing and digging: In the first, they stir three times, and dung the land well, lay the slices in every other furrow, one foot asunder, and plough between them once while growing, besides hand-weeding: They plough them up, and get 2, 3, and 400 bushels per acre.
Their other way is the lazy-bed method; they lay the dung on the green sward, the slices on that, then they dig trenches, and with the earth cover the setts, but they reckon ploughing a better way.
Good grass land letts at 30 s. an acre; use it mostly for dairying; an acre and half they reckon sufficient for a cow, and an acre for four sheep: Manuring it is common. Their breed of cattle is the long horned, and they reckon them best: Fat their oxen to fifty stone; their swine to twenty - four, or thirty.
The product of a cow they reckon at 3 l. 13 s. 6 d. and six gallons per day a common quantity of milk per cow: Do not keep above one hog to ten. The winter food, straw and hay; of the latter they eat about two ton. The summer joist is 35 s. In winter they are kept in the house: Their calves suck about two months.
Their flocks rise from 100 to 1000; the profit they reckon at 4 s. 3 d. a head; that is, lamb 3 s. and wool 1 s. 3 d. sometimes 5 s. They keep them, in both winter and spring, on the commons. The average weight of the fleeces, 4 lb.
In their tillage, they reckon that twelve horses are necessary for the management of 100 acres of arable land: They use some - times four, and sometimes two in a plough, and do an acre a day with them. The annual expence of keeping a horse they reckon at 6 l. 10 s. the summer joist 2 l. 2 s.
The price of ploughing, per acre, is from 5 s. to 6 s. and March the time of breaking up for a fallow. The hire of a cart and horse 3 s. a day.
In the hiring and stocking of farms, they reckon 360 l. or 400 l. necessary for one of 80 l. a year.
Land sells at from 35 to 40 years purchase.
Poor rates 9 d. in the pound. -- The employment of the women and children, spinning, and winding yarn.
No small estates.
The following particulars of farms will shew their general economy.
 100 acres in all 90 arable 10 grass £ .50 rent 8 horses 10 cows 4 fatting beasts 20 young cattle	
 400 sheep( common right) 1 man 1 maid 1 boy 1 labourer.	
Another,
 220 acres in all 100 grass 120 arable £ .80 rent 12 horses 22 cows 30 young cattle 5 fatting beasts 400 sheep( right of common) 1 man 2 maids 2 boys 3 labourers.	
Another,
 130 acres in all 50 arable 80 grass £ .95 rent 6 horses 12 cows 18 young cattle 200 sheep( right of common)	
 1 man 1 maid 1 boy.	
Another,
 70 acres in all 20 arable 50 grass £ .50 rent 4 horses 8 cows 2 fatting beasts 200 sheep( common right) 1 boy 1 maid.	
Labour. 
 In harvest, 1 s. and beer.	 In hay time, ditto.	 In winter, 6 d. and board.	 Reaping wheat, 6 s. Mowing grass, 2 s. Ditching, 4 d. to 5 d. per rood.	 First man's wages, 10 l. to 11 l. Next ditto, 6 l. Boy of ten or twelve years, 3 l. to 3 l. 10 s. Dairy maid, 4 l. 14 s. 6 d. Other ditto, 3 l. 3 s. Women per day in harvest, 1 s. and beer.	
 In hay time, ditto.	 In winter, 6 d. and beer.	
Implements. 
 No waggons.	 A cart for two horses, 7 l. A plough, 1 l. 5 s. A harrow, 10 s. A roller, 14 s. A scythe, 3 s. to 5 s. A spade, 2 s. 8 d. shoeing, 2 s.	
Provisions,& c 
 Bread-- oat and barley, ¾ d. per lb. Cheese, 2 d Butter, 6 d. 16 to 18 oz. Beef, 2 d. Mutton, 2 ½ d. Veal, 2 d. Pork, 3 d. Milk, ½ pint.	 Potatoes, 2 ½ d. a peck.	 Candles, 7 d. Soap, 6 d. Labourer's house rent, 20 s.------ firing, 25 s. but many on hedge-breaking alone.	
Building. 
 Oak, 1 s. 8 d. to 2 s. 6 d. Ash, 1 s. 6 d. to 2 s. Mason per day, 1 s 6 d. Carpenter, ditto.	 Slate, 28 s. a rood, getting and laying.	
Now, Sir, for the glory of Keswick,-- its lake, so famous all over England. Let me first inform you, that it is by computation ten miles round, of an oblong figure, and inclosed by a prodigious range of formidable mountains, of such a height that they are cloud-topped for several months in the year. The best way of viewing it is to row round the lake, and land now and then for catching the varieties of the prospect.
 I should apologize for many barbarous, and, probably, wrong spelt names, for they are taken from the people at Keswick. I have no where met with them in print.
You walk from the town first down to Cockshut Hill, a small rising ground, within the amphitheatre of mountains, and has been lately planted. The view of the lake from hence is very beautiful: You have a most elegant sheet of water at your feet, of the finest colour imaginable, spotted with islands, of which you see five, and are high enough to command the water around them. One is in the middle, of about five acres of grass land, with a house under a clump of trees on one side of it; the whole object beautifully picturesque: You look also upon another planted with Scotch firs; and also upon three others more distant. This is the view of the floor of this noble amphitheatre; the walls are in different style-- sublime. To the left you look first on a hilly rock, partly covered with shrubby wood; and further on, upon a chain of tremendous rocks, near 400 yards high; their feet are spread with hanging woods, but their heads bare, broken, and irregular. Following the line the lake seems to lose itself among a wood of rocks and mountains, the tops rising one above another in the wildest manner imaginable: The opposite shore presents you a full view of a vast range of hills; and behind, you look upon the prince of the surrounding mountains, Skiddow, whose tremendous head rears above the clouds.
Leaving this hill you walk down to your boat, and are struck with the limpid transparency of the water, which almost exceeds belief; the bottom is quite paved with stones, and the white ones glitter through the tremulous curl of the surface like so many diamonds. You row to the left pass, a variety of shore, here rocky and projecting, there low and retiring, coast a planted island, and coming under Wallow Crag, one of the immense rocks before mentioned, you have from its foot a very fine view: The surrounding rocks and mountains are truly noble; the crag above you, fringed about a third of its height with pendent woods; the lake at your feet breaks beautifully into a bay behind a promontory, called Stable Hills; against it is Brampsholm Island; and over the low part of the promontory you catch the wood on Lord's Island, in a very pleasing manner. The opposite shore is beautifully scattered with hanging woods, and some white houses give a liveliness to the view truly pleasing.
 Belonging to Greenwich Hospital.
Taking your boat again, and rowing till you are opposite the opening between Wallow and Barrow Crags, the noise of a water-fall unseen, will induce you to land again; walking on to a ruinous bridge, you look upon a romantic hollow of rocks and woods, with a stream pouring down the clefts in many sheets, and seen among the trees in the most picturesque manner; a romantic scene of rock, and wood and water thirty feet high.
Rowing from hence, under Barrow Crag, the shore is rocky, and various: Passing some low ground, and landing on a rising one, the view is exquisite. The water breaks in the most beautiful manner imaginable, into bays and sheets, stretching away from the eye most gloriously, between the Stable Hills, Lord's Island, and Vicar's Island: Brampsholm cuts in the middle; and St. Alban's Isle presents his broad side to your full view. At the other end of the lake, the rising hills, part of cultivated, waving inclosures, and part of hanging woods, all scattered with white houses, and the whole crowned with the lofty mountains, are beautifully picturesque, and contrast finely with the view of the south end of the lake, around which the rocks and mountains are tremendously bold, pendent, and threatening.
Following the coast, the shore is thinly fringed with wood; then you row around a projecting land, containing several inclosures, and come under a fine, thick, hanging wood, with a raging torrent breaking through it, over rocks, just seen between the wood and Barrow Side, but heard in the most romantic manner. -- You next anchor in a bay, the environs of which are dreadful; you are under a monstrous craggy rock,( Throng Crag,) scattered with shrubby wood to the very edge, and almost perpendicular; and moving the eye from the formidable object, you find this end of the lake surrounded with a chain of them, in the boldest and abruptest stile imaginable. The opposite shore of mountains very great; and noise of distant water-falls heard most gloriously.
From hence you coast a dreadful shore of fragments, which time has broken from the towering rocks, many of them of a terrible size; some stopped on the land by larger than themselves, and others rolled into the lake, through a path of desolation, sweeping trees, hillocks, and every thing to the water; the very idea of a small shiver against the boat strikes with horror.
Advancing, you catch the view of a most beautiful water-fall, within the wave of a gentle bend of the rocks; but to enjoy the full luxuriance of this exquisite landscape, it is necessary to land and walk to an opening in the grove, from whence it is seen in surprizing beauty.
You look up a tremendous wall of rock, perpendicular to the top, scattered with wood, that seems to hang in the air; a large stream rushes out of a cliff near the top, and falls, in the most broken and romantic manner, several hundred feet: It falls in one gush for several yards; a projecting part of the rock breaks it then into three streams, which are presently quite lost behind hanging woods. Lower down, you again catch it in a single bright sheet, among the surrounding dark wood, in the most elegantly picturesque manner that fancy ca conceive. Losing itself again behind the intervening trees, it breaks to the view in various scattered streams, half seen, glittering in the sun beams, among the branches of the trees, in the most bewitching colours of nature's clear obscure. Lower still, you again catch it united in one bright rushing fall, in the dark bosom of a fine hollow wood, which finishes the scene. The surrounding hills, rocks, and scattered pendent woods, are all romantic and sublime, and tend nobly to set off this most exquisite touch of rural elegance. In Plate I. is the sketch I took of it.
Following the coast you sail round a sweet little island, a clump of wood growing out of the lake; but it is joined to the main land when the water is very low. From hence, persuing the voyage, you come into the narrow part of the lake, and have a full view of most romantic terrible craggy rocks, inclosing a most grand and beautiful cascade: It is a view that must astonish the spectator. You look up to two dreadful pointed rocks, of a vast height, which almost hang over your head, partly scattered with shrubby wood, in the wildest taste of nature. Between them is a dreadful precipice of broken craggy rock, over which a raging torrent foams down in one vast sheet of water, several yards wide, just broken into ebullitions by the points of the rocks unseen. At another time I saw it, when the craggy rock appeared, and the stream was broken by it into several gushing torrents, which seemed to issue distinctly from clefts in the rock in the most picturesque manner imaginable: The water is lost in one spot, caught again in another; foaming out of this cleft with rushing impetuosity, and trickling down that with the most pleasing elegance. Nothing can be fancied more grand, more beautiful, or romantic.
The sketch in Plate Ii. will give you but an imperfect idea of it.
Taking a winding walk through the wood, it leads down to a rapid stream which you cross, and presently come to a new and most delicious scene. To the right you catch a side view of the fall just described, in a new direction, most beautifully embosomed in rock and hanging wood. Full in front you look upon another cascade, which rushes out as it were from the rotten stump of an old tree, and falling down an irregular surface of rock, it breaks into larger and more sheets, some full, others thin and trickling, a most sweet variety: After this, it breaks again, and falls into the stream in fresh beauty, elegantly romantic. Plate Iii. is the sketch I took.
Following the shore into fleet water, you come into a region of most stupendous rocks, broken, and irregularly pointed, in the most abrupt and wild manner imaginable, with monstrous fragments, large as a house, that have tumbled from their heads-- Dreadful in the idea!
Persuing the water to its point, you come into a new and most glorious amphitheatre of rocks and mountains; on one side, craggy, broken, and wildly irregular; and on the other, a vast range of mountain side. The hollow magnificently great.
Going up the river to Grange bridge, under Grange Crag the lake is lost: the prospect new and terrible; a whole sweep of rocks, crags, mountains, and dreadful chasms.
Leaving the boat, and walking up to the village, you gain a view of a cone-like rocky woody hill, rising in the midst of a hollow of mountains, most nobly romantic. From hence following the road to the lake under Brandelow Hill, you have the noblest view of rocks and hills in the world. Grange Crag and Crown Head appear in full view, surrounded by an immense wall of rock and mountain. The effect astonishingly great.
Taking boat again you row round a prodigious fine promontory, beautifully wooded; and upon turning it, you tack about round a most exquisite little island in the bay; and if the water is very high, there are two more very fine woody islands, around which you may row: This little archipelago will entertain a person of the least taste. Nor is the view of the lake's environs unworthy of admiration. The crags and clifts to the right are tremendous: Skiddow fronts you in the sublimest stile; Saddle Back on one side of him rears his head in the boldest manner: To the left you look upon an exceeding fine hanging wood, beautifully spread over a waving hill.
Advancing with the coast you next land at the lead mines, which, if you have a taste for grotto work, will entertain, as a boat may be loaded with spar of various glittering and beautiful kinds. Here also are two curiosities of an uncommon kind, viz. two salt springs.
Sailing along the shore it leads you under a noble hill most beautifully spread with wood; it is covered thick with young timber trees, which grow in the most picturesque manner down to the very water's edge. You next enter a little bay, and look upon a most elegant small round hill, covered with wood, inimitably beautiful. This you also coast, nor can any thing be more truly exquisite than these two slopes of wood, with beautiful inclosures between them, contrasting the sublimity of the rocks and mountains in the noblest stile. Nor should you here forget to remark three or four inclosures on the other side of the lake, down to the water's edge, under Achness Fell; they are exquisite.
Sailing by some very beautiful grass inclosures you catch a white house romantically situated; and then skirting more inclosures, turn round a small but most exquisite promontory, with a sweet clump of trees on it: This leads into a very fine land locked bay, which commands a beautiful sloping hanging wood; the scene enlivened by a white house quite in the spot of taste. From hence you look over the lake upon Castle Head Crag, a fine round of rocky wood rising out of a vale and backed with waving inclosures.
The shore from hence is most beautifully indented and irregular, running up among little hills finely fringed with wood: From hence you wind in and out of several bays and creeks, commanding very picturesque views of the land, and around a most noble hill of of shrubby wood covered to the very top. From hence around the town the shore is flat.
Your next view of Keswick must be from land, by walking up the vast rocks and crags first described. This is a journey which will terrify those who have been only used to flat countries. The walk to the highest rock is a mile and a half up, and almost perpendicular, horribly rugged, and tremendous; it is rather a climbing crawl than a walk. The path crossed the stream, which forms the first mentioned cascade, in the midst of dreadful cliffs and romantic hollows: The torrent roars beneath you, in some places seen, in others hid by rock and wood.
From hence you climb through a slope of underwood to the edge of a precipice, from which you look down upon the lake and islands in a most beautiful manner; for coming at once upon them, after leaving a thick dark wood, the emotions of suprize and admiration are very great.
Following the path,( if it may be so called) you pass many romantic spots, and come to the projection of the hill, from which you look down, not only upon the lake as before, but also upon a semi-circular vale of inclosures, of a most beautiful verdure, which gives a fine curve into the lake: One of the fields is scattered over with trees, which from hence have the most truly picturesque effect imaginable.
Advancing further yet, you come to the head of Crastig Fall, which is a vast opening among these immense rocky mountains, that lets in between them a view across the lake, catching two of the islands,& c. in a most beautiful manner; nor can anything be more horribly romantic than the adjoining ground where you command this sweet view.
At last we gained the top of the crag, and from it the prospect is truly noble; you look down upon the lake, spotted with its islands, so far below as to appear in another region; the lower hills and rocks rise most picturesquely to the view. To the right you look down upon a beautiful vale of cultivated inclosures, whose verdure is painting itself. The town presents its scattered houses, among woods and spreading trees: Above it rises Skiddow, cloud-topped in the most sublime magnitude.
Descending to the town, we took our leave of this enchanting region of landscape, by scaling the formidable walls of Skiddow himself: It is five miles to the top, but the immensity of the view fully repays for the labour of gaining it. You look upon the lake, which here appears no more than a little bason, and its islands but as so many spots; it is surrounded by a prodigious range of rocks and mountains, wild as the waves, sublimely romantic. These dreadful sweeps, the sport of nature in the most violent of her moments, are the most striking objects seen from Skiddow; but in mere extent the view is prodigious. You see the hills in Scotland plainly; you view a fine reach of fen; command the Isle of Man, and see part of an object, which I take to be an highland in Ireland; besides prodigious tracts of adjacent country.
 Keswick, upon the whole, contains a variety that cannot fail of astonishing the spectator: The lake, the islands, the hanging woods, the waving inclosures, and the cascades are all most superlatively elegant and beautiful; while the rocks, clifts, crags, and mountains are equally terrifying and sublime. There cannot be a finer contrast. But it is much to be regretted that art does not yield more of her assistance, not in decoration, for the lake wants it not, but in enabling the spectator to command, with greater ease, the luxuriant beauties and striking views which to so many travellers are hitherto quite unknown: There are a vast many edges of precipices, bold projections of rock, pendent clifts, and wild romantic spots, which command the most delicious scenes, but which cannot be reached without the most perilous difficulty: To such points of view, winding paths should be cut in the rock, and resting places made for the weary traveller: Many of these paths must necessarily lead through the hanging woods, openings might be made to let in views of the lake, where the objects, such as islands,& c. were peculiarly beautiful. At the bottom of the rocks also, something of the same nature should be executed for the better viewing the romantic cascades, which might be exhibited with a little art, in a variety that would astonish.
It is amusing to think of the pains and expense with which the environs of several seats have been ornamented, to produce pretty scenes it is true, but how very far short of the wonders that might here be held up to the eye in all the rich luxuriance of nature's painting. What are the effects of a Louis' s magnificence to the sportive play of nature in the vale of Keswick! How trifling the labours of art to the mere pranks of nature!
Returning to Penrith, our next expedition was to Hulls Water, a very fine lake, about six miles from that town: The approach to it is very beautiful; the most advantageous way of seeing it is to take the road up Dunmanlot Hill, for you rise up a very beautiful planted hill, and see nothing of the water till you gain the summit, when the view is uncommonly beautiful. You look down at once upon one sheet of the lake, which appears prodigiously fine. It is an oblong water, cut by islands, three miles long and a mile and a half broad in some places, in others a mile. It is inclosed within an amphitheatre of hills, in front at the end of the reach, projecting down to the water edge, but retiring from it on each side, so as to leave a space of cultivated inclosures between the feet and the lake. The hedges that divide them are scattered with trees; and the fields of both grass and corn, waving in beautiful slopes from the water, intersected by hedges, in the most picturesque manner.
Upon the right, a bold swelling hill of turf rises with a fine air of grandeur. Another view from off this hill is on to a mountain's side, which presents to the eye a swelling slope of turf, and over it saddleback rises in a noble stile.
Another view from this hill is down upon a beautiful vale of cultivated inclosures; Mr. Haffel' s house at Delmaine, in one part, almost encompassed with a plantation: Here you likewise catch some meanders of the river, through the trees, and hear the roar of the water-fall. This hill is itself a very fine object, viewed every way, but the simplicity of its effect is destroyed, by being cut by a double stripe of Scotch firs across it, which varies the colour of the verdure, and consequently breaks the unity of the view.
Another point of view from which this part of the lake is seen to good advantage, is from off Soulby Fell: You look down upon the water, which spreads very finely to the view, bounded to the right by the hills, which rise from the very water; at the other, by Dunmanlot Hill; in front, by a fine range of inclosures, rising most beautifully to the view, and the water's edge skirted by trees, in a most picturesque manner.
Directing your course under the lake, and landing at Swarth Fell, the next business should be to mount its height. The lake winds at your feet like a noble river; the opposite banks beautiful inclosures, exquisitely fringed with trees; and some little narrow slips, like promontories, jet into it with the most picturesque effect imaginable; and at the same time hear the noise of a water-fall beneath, but unseen.
Taking boat again, and sailing with the course of the lake, you turn with its bend, and come into a very fine sheet of water, which appears like a lake of itself. It is under Howtown and Hawling Fell. The environs here are very striking; cultivated inclosures on one side, crowned with the tops of hills; and on the other, a woody craggy hill down to the very water's edge. The effect fine.
Next you double Hawling Fell, and come again into a new sheet of water, under Martindale Fell, which is a prodigious fine hill, of a bold, abrupt form; and between that and Howling Fell, a little rising wave of cultivated inclosures, skirted with trees; the fields of the finest verdure, and the picturesque appearance of the whole most exquisitely pleasing. It is a most delicious spot, within an amphitheatre of rugged hills.
Following the bend of the water under New Crag, the views are more romantic than in any part hitherto seen. New Crag, to the right, rears a bold, abrupt head, in a stile truly sublime; and passing it a little, the opposite shore is very noble. Martindale Fell rises steep from the water's edge, and presents a bold wall of mountain; really glorious. In front, the hills are craggy, broken, and irregular in shape( not height) like those of Keswick: They project so boldly to the very water, that the outlet or wind of the water is shut by them from the eye. It seems inclosed by a shore of steep hills and crags. From hence to the end of the lake, which there is sprinkled by three or four small islands, the views are in the same Stile, very wild and romantic. It is an exceedingly pleasing entertainment to sail about this fine lake, which is nineteen miles round, and presents to the eye several very fine sheets of water; and abounds, for another amusement, with noble fish; pike to 30 lb. perch to 6 lb. trout to 6 lb. besides many other sorts. The water is of a most beautiful colour, and admirably transparent.
Returning to Penrith, I took the road to Shapp, by Lowther Hall, the seat of Sir James Lowther, Bart. The house( it was burnt down not many years ago) is not so striking as the plantations, which are designed with much taste, and of very great extent. Near the road is the new town of Lowther, where Sir James is building a town to consist of 300 houses, for the use of such of his domesticks, and other people, as are married: And it is highly worhty of remark, that he not only encourages all to marry, but keeps them in his service after they have families: Every couple finds a residence here, and an annual allowance of coals. This is a most incomparable method of advancing population, and consequently the good of the nation at large; nor can it be too much imitated. Above forty houses are already erected.
The soil about Shapp is generally a loam upon a lime-stone, in some places thin, but in others deep; letts from 1 s. to 20 s. an acre; but the inclosures generally 20 s.
Farms from 40 l. to 400 l. a year.
Their course,
 1. Break up, and sow oats 2. Oats 3. Barley 4. Oats, and then down again.	
This is execrable.
They plough but once for barley, sow two bushels, and gain about twenty. For oats they give three or four ploughings, sow seven bushels and a half, and gain thirty - five in return.
Good grass letts at 20 s. and 25 s. an acre; it is used both for dairying and fatting, but chiefly the latter: An acre they reckon will keep a cow through summer, or six sheep. They manure it as much as they can, but that is no great matter. Their breed of cattle is the long-horned, and have fatted them so high as 130 stone, but very uncommon; 60 to 80 common.
The product of a cow they reckon at 5 l. and four gallons the common quantity of milk per day: As to swine, they keep none, upon account of cows: A farmer without a dairy has as many as those who keep the largest, which would surprize a Suffolk or an Essex man. The winter food of the cows is hay, in general, but some straw. Their calves for the butcher suck from one to ten weeks; for rearing, not at all, but are all brought up by hand with milk, for twenty weeks. A cow, in winter, generally eats an acre and a half of hay, and they are kept in house. The summer joist from 14 s. to 40 s.
Their flocks of sheep rise from 5 to 1500. They sell no lambs, but rear them for weathers, at from 7 s to 14 s. The profit, per head, of the flock, about 5 s. Keep them, both winter and spring, on the commons: The weight of the fleeces 3 or 4 lb. at 3 d.
They use two or three horses in a plough, and do an acre a day. The summer joist of a horse varies from 10 s. to to 50 s. The price of ploughing, from 5 s. to 6 s. an acre: They cut about five inches deep.
They know nothing of cutting straw for chaff.
They reckon 5 or 600 l. necessary to stock a farm of 100 l. a year: They are, in general, grazing ones.
Land sells from 30 to 35 years purchase: There are many freeholds of from 100 to 300 l. a year.
Tythes both gathered and compounded.
Poor rates from 6 d. to 1 s. in the pound. The employment spinning wool, for Kendal. All drink tea.
The farmers carry their corn ten miles.
The following particulars of farms will shew the general economy.
 200 acres of grass £ .140 rent 2 horses 60 fatting beasts 10 cows	
 20 young cattle 700 sheep( common right) 2 men 1 maid.	
Another,
 100 acres in all 15 arable 85 grass £ .100 rent 2 horses 20 cows 15 fatting beasts 15 young cattle 200 sheep( common right) 1 man 1 maid.	
Another,
 120 acres in all 20 arable 100 grass £ .75 rent 3 horses 13 cows 8 fatting beasts 10 young cattle 500 sheep( common right) 1 man	
 1 maid 1 boy.	
Another,
 70 acres in all 5 arable 65 grass £. 63 rent 2 horses 10 cows 2 fatting beasts 8 young cattle 200 sheep( common right) 1 boy 1 maid.	
Another,
 50 acres, all grass £ .40 rent 1 horse 6 fatting beasts 8 cows 10 young cattle 80 sheep( common right) 1 boy.	
Labour. 
 In harvest, 8 d. to 10 d. and board.	 In hay time, 1 s. to 1 s. 6 d. and ditto.	
 In winter, 6 d. and ditto.	 Mowing 3 s. Head man's wages. 9 l. Next ditto, 7 l 10 s. Boy of ten or twelve years, 50 s. Maids, 4 l. to 5 l. Women per day in harvest, 6 d. and board.	 In hay time, ditto.	
Implements. 
 No wagggons.	 A cart, 5 l. A plough, 30 s. A harrow, 7 s. 6 d. No rollers.	 A scythe, 2 s. 6 d. to 4 s. A spade, 2 s 6 d. Shoeing, 2 s.	
Provisions,& c 
 Bread-- Oat.	 Cheese, 2 ½ d. Butter, 7 ½ d. 20 oz. Beef, 2 d. to 2 ½ d. Mutton, 2 d. to 2 ½ d. Veal, ditto.	
 Pork, 4 d. to 4 ½ d. Bacon, 7 d. Milk, ½ d. per pint.	 Potatoes, 2 d. a peck.	 Candles, 7 d. Soap, 6 ½ d. Labourer's house-rent, 20 s. to 40 s.------ firing, 20 s. to 30 s.	
Building. 
 Oak, 1 s. 4 d. Ash, 1 s. 2 d. Carpenter, 1 s. a day, and board.	 Slate, 55 s. a rood, brought in.	 ------ laying on and lime, 15 s. Stone walling, 7 d. a yard workmanship; and getting, 2 d.	
I took the opportunity of being at Shapp to ride to Haws Water, a lake some miles to the westward. The road thither leads for some distance along the side of a hill, which commands an exceeding fine view of Ponton Vale to the left. It is several miles in length, of an oblong figure, all cut into inclosures of a charming verdure, and scattered in the most picturesque manner with villages, clumps of wood, houses, bridges, trees,& c. A fine river takes the most beautiful serpentine course in the world through it: The opposite bank is a large ridge of mountain. It is a sweet landscape, which brings to ones imagination the idea of an Arcadian paradise.
The approach to the lake is very picturesque: You pass between two high ridges of mountain, the banks finely spread with inclosures; upon the right two small beautiful hills, one of them covered with wood; they are most pleasingly elegant. The lake is a small one, about three miles long, half a mile over in some places, and a quarter in others; almost divided in the middle by a promontory of inclosures, joining only by a streight; so that it consists of two sheets of water. The upper end of it is fine, quite inclosed with bold steep craggy rocks and mountains; and in the center of the end a few little inclosures at their feet, waving upwards in a very beautiful manner. The fourth side of the lake is a noble ridge of mountain, very bold and prominent down to the waters edge. They bulge out in the centre in a fine bold pendent broad head that is venerably magnificent: And the view of the first sheet of the lake losing itself into the second among hills, rocks, woods,& c. is picturesque. The opposite shore consists of inclosures, rising one above another, and crowned with craggy rocks.
Twelve of the fifteen miles from Shapp to Kendal are a continued chain of mountainous moors, totally uncultivated; one dreary prospect, that makes one melancholy to behold; for the soil itself is highly capable of cultivation and of profitable uses; much of it is of a good depth; and the spontaneous growth proves that the nature of the land is equal to many valuable uses.
After crossing this dreary track, the first appearance of good country is most exquisitely fine; about three miles from Kendal you at once look down from off this desolate country upon one of the finest landscapes in the world; a noble range of fertile inclosures, richly enameled with most beautiful verdure: And coming to the brow of the hill have a most elegantly picturesque view of a variegated track of waving inclosures, spreading over hills, and hanging to the eye in the most picturesque and pleasing manner that fancy can conceive. Three hills in particular are overlooked, cut into inclosures in a charming stile, of themselves forming a most elegant landscape, and worthy the imitation of those who would give the embellishments of art to the simplicity of nature.
 Kendal is a well built and well paved town, pleasantly situated, in the midst of the beautiful country just described. It is famous for several manufactories; the chief of which is that of knit stockings, employing near 5000 hands by computation. They reckon 120 wool-combers, each employing five spinners, and each spinner four of five knitters; if four, the amount is 2400; this is the full work, supposing them all to be industrious; but the number is probably much greater. They make 550 dozen a week the year round, or 28,600 dozen annually: The price per pair is from 22 d. to 6 s. but in general from 22 d. to 4 s. some boys at 10 d. If we suppose the average 3 s. or 36 s. a dozen, the amount is 51,480 l.
The wool they use is chiefly Leicestershire, Warwickshire, and Durham: They generally mix Leicestershire and Durham together. The price 8 d. 9 d. and 10 d. per lb. They send all the manufacture to London by land carriage, which is said to be the longest, for broad wheel wagons, of any stage in England. The earnings of the manufacturers in this branch are as follow:
	 s. d. The combers, per week, 10 6 The spinners, women, 3 0 Ditto, children of ten or twelve years, 2 0 The knitters, 2 6 Ditto, children of ten or twelve years, 2 0	
All the work-people may have constant employment if they please.
During the late war business was Exceedingly brisk, very dull after the peace, but now as good as ever known.
The making of cottons is likewise a considerable manufacture in this town. They are called Kendal cottons, chiefly for exportation, or sailors jackets, about 10 d. or 1 s. a yard, made of Westmoreland wool, which is very coarse, selling only at 3 d or 4 d. per lb. This branch employs three or 400 hands, particularly shearman, weavers, and spinners.
	 s. d. The shearman earn per week, 10 6 The weavers,( chiefly women,) 4 3 The spinners, 3 3	
All have constant employment. During the war this manufacture was more brisk than ever, very dull after the peace, and has continued but indifferent ever since.
Their third branch of manufacture is the linsey woolsey, made chiefly for home consumption, of Westmoreland, Lancashire, and Cumberland wool; the hands are chiefly weavers and spinners. The first earn 9 s. or 10 s. a week; the second( women) 4 s. 6 d. or 5 s.
The farmers and labourers spin their own wool, and bring the yarn to market every week: There are about 500 weavers employed, and from 1000 to 1300 spinners in town and country. The business during the war better then it has been since, but is now better than after the peace.
Their fourth manufacture is the tannery, which employs near 100 hands, who earn from 7 s. to 7 s. 6 d. a week. They tan many hides from Ireland.
They have likewise a small manufactory of cards, for carding cloth. Another also of silk: They receive the waste silk from London, boil it in soap, which they call scowering, then it is combed by women( there are about 30 or 40 of them) and spun, which article employs about 100 hands; after this it is doubled and dressed, and sent back again to London. This branch is upon the increase.
Provisions,& c

 Bread-- oatmeal baked in thin hard cakes, called clap-bread, costs 1 d. per lb. Cheese, 3 ½ d. Butter, 6 ½ d. 16 oz. Mutton, 2 d. to 2 ½ d. Beef, 2 ½ d. to 3 d. Veal, 2 ½ d. Pork, 4 ½ d. Bacon, 6 ½ d. Milk, ½ d. a pint.	 Potatoes, 10 d. four gallons.	
 Poor's house rent, 30 s.------ firing, 45 s. to 50 s.	
 Kendal is a very plentiful and cheap place; fat stubble geese are sold at 1 s. 4 d. each; fat fowls at 1 s. a couple; fat ducks the same price; wild fowl and game in great plenty; woodcocks often at 2 d. a piece; partridges are sold common in the market and very cheap: Fish in great plenty; trout oftentimes at a penny a pound, besides many other sorts. It is a neat well built town.
 This is so cheap, that a Living I heard of is not a very fat one, 4 l. a year, a pair of wooden shoes, and a Goose Gate. Alas, poor Rector! All the poor in this country wear wooden shoes. A Goose Gate is the right of keeping a goose on the common.
From hence we viewed the famous lake called Winander Meer, ten miles west of Kendal; by much the longest water of the kind in England. It is fifteen miles long, and from two miles to half a mile broad. It gives gentle bends, so as to present to the eye several noble sheets of water; and is in many places beautifully scattered with islands: The shores are nobly varied, consisting in some places of fine ridges of hills, in others of craggy rocks; in some of waving inclosures, and in others of the finest hanging woods; several villages and one market town are situated on its banks, and a ferry crosses it to another; there is some business carried on upon it, so that it is not uncommon to see barges with spreading sails: All these circumstances give it a very chearful appearance, at the same time that they add to its beauty.
I would advise those who view this lake, not to take the common road down to the village of Bonus, where the boats are kept, but( for reasons which I shall hereafter add) to go thither round almost by the ferry. The landlord at the inn at that village keeps a boat, and can always provide rowers for any company that comes; the extreme beauty of the lake induced me to explore every part of it with attention; but as I have already troubled you with several recitals of these water expeditions, I shall only mention a few of the principal points of view, and to which I should particularly recommend any traveller to row if he had not time to view the whole lake; but no scheme of this sort can be more amusing than two or three days spent here in rowing, sailing, fishing, and wild duck shooting, all which are here to be had in great perfection; and I should add, that the end of May, or the beginning of June, is the proper time for such an expedition.
 I am sensible throughout this Tour of mis-spelt names; but many of the places I mention are not to be found in maps, I am obliged, therefore, to write from the ear.
Taking boat at the village, you row first to The Island, so called by way of preeminence, being by much the largest in the lake; it contains between thirty and forty acres of land, and I cannot but think it the sweetest spot, and full of the greatest capabilities, of any forty acres in the king's dominions. The view from the south end is very fine; the lake presents a most noble sheet of water stretching away for several miles, and bounded in front by distant mountains; the shoars beautifully indented by promontories covered with wood, and jetting into the water in the most picturesque stile imaginable, particularly the ferry points on both sides; it is broke by Berkshire Island, almost covered with wood, in another, and just hides a house on the main land.
The eastern shore is spread forth with the most beautiful variety. In some places waving inclosures of corn and grass rise one above another, and present to the eye a scenery beyond the brightest ideas of painting itself. In others shrubby spots and pendent woods hang down to the very water's edge: In some places these woods are broke by a few small grass inclosures of the sweetest verdure; and in others run around large circuits of them, and, rising to the higher grounds, lose themselves in the wilds above. Here you see slips of land running into the lake, and covered with trees which seem to rise from the water: There, a boldly indented shore, swelling into fine bays, and skirted with spreading trees, an edging as elegant as ever fancied by Claud himself. The village is caught among some scattered trees, in a sweet situation, on the bank of a bay, formed by a promontory of wood, the back ground a sweep of inclosures, rising one above another.
Following this line of shoar towards the north, you command Bannerig and Oarest Head, two hills all cut into inclosures to the very top; to the north you look upon a noble range of irregular mountains, which contrast finely with the other more beautiful shores. The western is a fine sweep of craggy rocks, here and there fringed with wood. Advancing to the very farthest point of land, these objects are varied, and new ones appear that are truly beautiful. The Lancashire ferry point and the woody island join, and seem one prodigious fine promontory of wood; the ferry house seen among the trees in a picturesque manner. They form the boundary in front of a fine bay, walled in to the right by a noble rocky cliff; and in the middle of it a sweet little woody island. Over the low part of the promontory the distant hills are seen finely. The shore to the left, here, appears peculiarly beautiful, for half a dozen inclosures of the most elegant verdure rise from the water's edge among sloping woods, and offer a variety of colours of the most picturesque hues. From hence likewise you look back on Bannerig, a fine cultivated hill, rising from the lake in a most pleasing manner.
Moving from this end of the island along the west coast of it, the view is extremely picturesque. The streight is broke by three islands, two of them thickly covered with wood, the other a long slip, scattered with tall upright trees, through the stems of which, and under the thick shade of their spreading tops, the water is seen glittering with with the sun beams; a landscape truly delicious.
From the north end of this isle, so happy in the beauties of prospect, the views are various, and some of them exquisite: Looking towards the south, you command a prodigious fine view of the lake, spreading to the right and left behind promontories, one beyond another, in a gloriously irregular sheet of water, encircled by an amphitheatre of hills, in the noblest stile. To the north you look upon another sheet, different from the first: It is broke by a cluster of four small but beautiful islands.
Full in front you look upon a noble sweep of mountains, and on one, in particular, that is very curious: It is of a circular form, rising out of a vast hollow among the rest, and is overtopped by them; romantic in the highest degree. A little to the right of it, you command one of the most noble of cultivated hills. It is intersected by hedges, trees, and scattered woods, into a vast sweep of inclosures, which reach the very top: A view beautifully magnificent. More to the right, the eye is delighted with the most elegant waves of cultivated inclosures, that can be conceived, rising to the view in the most picturesque varieties of landscape, and forcing admiration from the most tasteless of mortals. To the left, a vast range of rocks and mountains form the boundary of the lake, and project into it in the boldest manner.
Sailing from this noble island to that of Berkshire, a little hilly wood of scattered trees: The views are various, rich, and truly picturesque: From the north side of it you look upon a fine sheet of water, to the Great Island,& c. and bounded by a noble variety of shore. To the left, and in front, high ridges of hlls and mountains: To the right, most beautiful waving hills of inclosures; some just ri4ing enough to shew their hedges distinctly, and others hanging full to the eye; beneath, a boundary of rough hills, and wild, uncultivated ground. To the left, you see Crow Island, which appears fine; and the ferry-house, beneath a clump of trees, on the point of a promontory, jetting into the water, with an effect really exquisite. To the east, you look against a very fine bank of inclosures, most elegantly scattered with trees. To the south, the lake is lost between two promontories, projecting into it against each other, and leaving a fine Strait between: One is high and rocky; the other, a line of waving wood and inclosures, and catch beyond it the distant hills, which complete the view. The western prospect is on to a range of craggy hills; some most beautifully fringed with hanging woods, and cut in the middle by a cultivated wave of inclosures, broken by woods, hedges, clumps, and scattered trees, and rising one above another, in the most picturesque irregularity that fancy can suppose. At the top, a farm-house, under a clump of trees; the whole forming a bird's eye landscape of the most delicious kind. Nor can any thing be finer than the hanging woods on this side of the lake, broken by grass inclosures of a beautiful verdure.
Sailing across the lake from Berkshire to the shore under these inclosures, which are called Round Table, nothing in nature can be more exquisite than the view, as you move, of a fine, long, grass inclosure, at the water's edge, on the opposite shore, bounded by fine woods, except to the lake, edged with some spreading trees, through which the view of the grass is truly picturesque. Other waving slopes of inclosures, to the right, hang to the lake, under the shade of a rough, wild hill, and down to a skirting of wood, on the water's edge, in the finest manner. Behind, the rocky cliff of Fourness Fells, has a noble appearance, crowned with a sweep of wood.
Sailing under the western shore, you command most beautiful landscapes on the opposite one, consisting of the finest banks of cultivated inclosures, scattered with trees, clumps of wood, farm houses,& c. and hanging to the water's edge in the most charming variety of situation; the fields in some places dipping in the very lake, in others thick woods rising from the water; scenes which call for the pencil of a genius to catch graces from nature beyond the reach of the most elaborate art.
Coming to Ling Holm, a small rocky island, with a few trees on it, you have a double view of the two shores, finely contrasted, the western spread with noble hanging woods; and the eastern one cultivated hills, waving to the eye in the finest inequalities of surface. The distant hills are also seen in a bold stile over the low inclosures of Rawlinson's Nab, a promontory to the south.
Landing on the point of that promontory the view is very noble, it commands two glorious sheets of water, north and south, each of four or five miles in length. That to the south is bounded in general by rough woody hills, broken in a few spots by little inclosures: In front of the promontory, several very beautiful ones, cut by irregular sweeps of wood, and hanging to the water's edge in the finest manner; the whole crowned with craggy tops of hills.
But the view to the north is much the most beautiful. Berkshire Island breaks the sheet of water in one place, and adds to the picturesque variety of the scene without injuring its noble simplicity. Common Nab, a promontory from the east shore, projects into it in another place, elegantly variegated with wood and inclosures, waving over sloping hills, and crowned with rough uncultivated ground. One inclosure in paticular breaks into the wood in the most picturesque manner imaginable. This end of the lake is bounded by the noble hills of cultivated inclosures, already mentioned, which are viewed from hence to much advantage; they rise from the shore with great magnificence. To the left a ridge of hanging woods, spread over wild romantic ground, that breaks into bold projections, abrupt and spirited, contrasting the elegance of the opposite beautiful shore in the finest manner.
Having thus viewed the most pleasing objects from these points, let me next conduct you to a spot, where, at one glance, you command them all, in fresh situations, and all assuming a new appearance. For this purpose you return to the village, and taking the bye road to the turnpike,( not that by which you came) mount the hill without turning your head( if I was your guide I would conduct you behind a small hill, that you might come at once upon the view) till you almost gain the top, when you will be struck with astonishment at the prospect spread forth at your feet, which, if not the most superlative view that nature can exhibit, she is more fertile in beauties than the reach of my imagination will allow me to conceive. It would be mere vanity to attempt to describe a scene which beggars all description, but that you may have some faint idea of the outlines of this wonderful picture, I will just give the particulars of which it consists.
The point on which you stand is the side of a large ridge of hills that form the eastern boundaries of the lake, and the situation high enough to look down upon all the objects: A circumstance of great importance, and which painting cannot imitate: In landscapes, you are either on a level with the objects, or look up to them; the painter cannot give the declivity at your feet, which lessens the objects as much in the perpendicular line as in his horizontal one.
You look down upon a noble winding valley of about twelve miles long, every where inclosed with grounds which rise in a very bold and various manner; in some places bulging into mountains, abrupt, wild, and uncultivated; in others, breaking into rocks, craggy, pointed, and irregular: Here, rising into hills covered with the noblest woods, presenting a gloomy brownness of shade, almost from the clouds to the reflection of the trees in the limpid water they so beautifully skirt: There, waving in glorious slopes of cultivated inclosures, adorned in the sweetest manner with every object that can give variety to art, or elegance to nature; trees, woods, villages, houses, farms, scattered with picturesque confusion, and waving to the eye in the most romantic landscapes that nature can exhibit.
This valley, so beautifully inclosed, is floated by the lake, which spreads forth to the right and left in one vast but irregular expanse of transparent water. A more noble object can hardly be imagined. Its immediate shoar is traced in every variety of line that fancy can imagine, sometimes contracting the lake into the appearance of a noble winding river; at others retiring from it, and opening large swelling bays, as if for navies to anchor in; promontories spread with woods, or scattered with trees and inclosures, projecting into the water in the most picturesque stile imaginable: rocky points breaking the shore, and rearing their bold heads above the water. In a word, a variety that amazes the beholder.
But what finishes the scene with an elegance too delicious to be imagined, is, this beautiful sheet of water being dotted with no less than ten islands, distinctly commanded by the eye; all of the most bewitching beauty. The large one presents a waving various line, which rises from the water in the most picturesque inequalities of surface: high land in one place, low in another; clumps of trees in this spot, scattered ones in that; adorned by a farmhouse on the water's edge, and backed with a little wood, vyeing in simple elegance with Boromean palaces: Some of the smaller isles rising from the lake like little hills of wood, some only scattered with trees, and others of grass of the finest verdure; a more beautiful variety no where to be seen.
Strain your imagination to command the idea of so noble an expanse of water thus gloriously environed; spotted with islands more beautiful than would have issued from the pencil of the happiest painter. Picture the mountains rearing their majestic heads with native sublimity; the vast rocks boldly projecting their terrible craggy points: And in the path of beauty, the variegated inclosures of the most charming verdure, hanging to the eye in every picturesque form that can grace a landscape, with the most exquisite touches of la belle nature: If you raise your fancy to something infinitely beyond this assemblage of rural elegancies, you may have a faint notion of the unexampled beauties of this ravishing landscape.
As I next resume intelligence of husbandry with the county of Lancaster, I shall here conclude this letter,
I am, Sir,& c.
Letter Xviii. 
Returning to Kendal I took the road to Burton, passing through a country various in respect of culture: Around that town, particularly about Holme, their soil is a light loam on a lime stone, with some of sand, letts from 6 s. 8 d. to 3 l. an acre; average about a guinea.
Farms from 20 l. to 80 l. a year.
As to their courses they did not use to fallow at all, but now they are,
 1. Fallow 2. Wheat 3. Barley 3. Oats and then let it lie to graze itself.	
And,
 1. Fallow 2. Wheat 3. Barley 4. Clover 5. Wheat 6. Oats 7. Barley	
 8. Oats, and then lye as before; for this these slovens deserve to be hanged.	
Of wheat they sow two bushels, about Michaelmas, and reap from twelve to fifteen. For barley they plough twice, sow not quite three bushels, about the end of April or the beginning of May, and reckon the average produce at twenty. They plough but once for oats, sow four bushels about the time of barley sowing; the crop twenty - four. They cultivate some beans, plough once, sow two bushels in March or April, never hoe, but gain on an average twenty - three bushels. They plough once for pease, sow a bushel and a half, and gain from none at all to fifteen bushels. For rye they likewise give but one earth, sow two bushels; the crop from twelve to fifteen.
They stir twice for turneps, know nothing of hoeing; the average value per acre, 5 l. or 6 l. Thomas Richardson has had crops that he would not take 12 l. an acre for; but such extravagant prices are not in the least owing to good husbandry, but the scarcity of the commodity. They use them for cows, sheep,& c. & c. Clover is not very common, but they sow it with barley; they get 15 Cwt. of hay off it the first crop, and 10 or 12 Cwt. the second; but sometimes they feed one crop.
Their culture of potatoes is as follows: They dung the lay ground well; lay the slices( 18 bushels) on the dung, and then dig trenches two spits wide, and cover the setts, which are laid seven inches square, with the turfs and moulds that rise: If weeds come they are drawn out by hand. The crop, upon an average, 180 bushels per acre. Barley they sow after them, and get thirty bushels an acre. This is the lazy-bed way.
As to manure, they can at present boast a little, for lime is in use among them, but it has been only for two or three years; they lay 90 or 100 bushels an acre on to fallow for wheat, costs 4 ½ d. per bushel; they do not pare and burn; stack their hay in houses, but know nothing of chopping their stubbles.
Good grass letts from 2 l. to 3 l. They use it chiefly for the dairy: An acre and a quarter, or an acre and a half, they reckon sufficient for the summer feed of a cow; and an acre to keep four or five sheep. Their breed of cattle is the long horned.
The product of a cow, 6 l. 6 s. to 7 l. They give four gallons of milk per day, on an average. To ten cows, they keep two or three swine. The winter food hay and straw; of the first, about an acre and half. The summer joist, 35 s. A dairy-maid, they reckon, can take care of eight cows; calves suck from from five to six weeks, both for rearing and butcher.
Sheep they reckon, I know not for what reason, hurtful among milch cows; their flocks are from twenty to one hundred and fifty, the profit 5 s. or 6 s. per sheep; keep them all the year in the field; the medium of their fleeces 6 or 7 lb. from 3 d. to 5 d. per ib.
In the tillage of their lands they reckon four horses necessary for fifty acres of arable land, use three or four in a plough, and do three rood a day. The annual expence of keeping a horse they reckon 6 l. They break up their stubbles for a fallow in March; plough in general about five or six inches deep; the common price 8 s. an acre.
Two shillings a day the hire of a cart and horse.
One hundred pounds they reckon sufficient for stocking a farm of 50 l. a year.
Tythes are generally taken in kind.
Poor rates 3 d. in the pound; they spin flax and wool. Most of them drink tea twice a day.
Estates are either large, or under 100 l. a year: Very few gentlemen of 2, 3, 4, or 500 l. a year.
The farmers do not carry their corn above three miles.
The following sketches of farms will give an idea of their general economy.
 55 acres in all 50 arable £. 56 rent 4 horses 10 cows 4 young cattle 2 fatting beasts 1 boy 1 labourer.	
Another,
 70 acres in all 50 arable £ .65 rent 5 horses 12 cows	
 2 fatting beasts 6 young cattle 30 sheep 1 man 1 boy 1 maid 1 labourer.	
Another,
 35 acres in all 30 arable £ .35 rent 4 horses 4 cows 6 young cattle 1 boy 1 maid.	
Another,
 46 acres in all 38 arable £ .40 rent 4 horses 6 cows 4 young cattle 20 sheep 1 man.	
Labour. 
 In harvest, 1 s. a day and board.	 In hay time, ditto.	
 In winter, 6 d. and ditto.	 Reaping per acre, 8 s. to 8 s. 6 d. Ditching, 6 ½ d. a rood.	 Head Man's wages, 9 l. to 10 l. Next ditto, 6 l. Boy of ten or twelve years, 3 l. Dairy maid, 4 l. 4 s. Other ditto, 50 s. to 3 l. 3 s. Women per day in harvest, 8 d. and board.	 In hay time, 6 d. and ditto.	 In winter, 4 d. and ditto.	
Implements,& c 
 No waggons.	 A cart, 4 l. to 6 l. A plough, 15 s. A harrow, 7 s. 6 d. Few rollers.	 A scythe, 2 s. 3 d. A spade, 2 s. 6 d. Laying a share and coulter, 2 s. Shoeing, 1 s. 4 d.	
Provisions,& c

 Bread-- Oat less than 1 d. Cheese, 3 d. Butter, 6 ½ d. 18 oz. Beef, 2 ½ d.	
 Mutton, 2 d. Veal, 2 d. Pork, 4 d. Milk, ½ a quart new, three quarts skim for 1 d. Potatoes, 8 d. a peck.	 Candles, 6 ½ d. Soap, 6 d. Labourer's house rent, 15 s. to 30 s.------ firing, 25 s. to 30 s.	
 Lancaster is a flourishing town, well situated for trade, of which it carries on a pretty brisk one; possessing about 100 sail of ships, some of them of a good burthen, for the African and American trades; the only manufactory in the town is that of cabinet ware; here are many cabinet-makers, who work up the mahogany brought home in their own ships, and re-export it to the West Indies,& c. & c. It is a town that increases in buildings; having many new piles, much superior to the old streets, and handsomely raised of white stone and slate.

