

A Tour In Scotland. Mdcclxix. Tros Tyriusque mihi nullo discrimine agetur Chester: Printed By John Monk. Mdcclxxi.
The country between Moffat and Lockerby is very good, a mixture of downs and corn-land, with a few small woods: the country grows quite flat and very unpleasant. Cross a fmall river called the Sark, which divides the two kingdoms, and enter Cumberland.
About three miles farther cross the Esk over a handsome stone-bridge, and lie at the small village of Longtown. The country is very rich in corn, but quite bare of trees, and very flat. Near this village, at Netherby are the ruins of a Roman sta -, tion, where statues, weapons and coins are often dug up.
Cross the Eden to Carlisle a pleasant city, surrounded with walls, like Chester, but they are very dirty, and kept in very bad repair. The castle is antient, but makes a good appearance at a distance: the view from it is fine, of rich meadows, at this time covered with thousands of cattle, it being fair-day. The Eden here forms two branches, and infulates the ground; over one is a bridge of four, over the other one of nine arches. There is besides a prospect of a rich country, and a distant view of Cold Fells, Cross Fells, Skiddaw, and other mountains.
The cathedral is very imperfect, Cromwell having pulled down part to build barracks with the materials. There remains some portion that was built in the Saxon times, with very massy pillars and round arches. The rest is more modern, said to have been built in the reign of Edward Iii. who had in one part an apartment to lodge in. The arches in this latter building are sharp-pointed: the cast window remarkably fine.
The manufactures of Carlisle are chiefly of printed linnens, for which near 3000l. per ann. is paid in duties. It is also noted for a great manufacture of whips, which employs numbers of children.
Salmons appear in the Eden in numbers so early as the months of December and January; and the London and even Newcastle markets, are supplied with early fish from this river: but it is remarkable, that they do not visit the Esk in any quantity till April, notwithstanding the mouths of both these waters are at a small distance from each other. I omitted in its proper place an account of the Newcastle fishery, therefore insert here the little I could collect relating to it: the fish seldom appear in the Tyne till February: there are about 24 fisheries on the river, besides a very considerable were, and the whole annual capture amounts to about 36,000 fish. I was informed that once the fish were brought from Berwick and cured at Newcastle; but at present, notwithstanding all goes under the name of Newcafstle Salmon, very little is taken there, in companion of what is caught in the Tweed.
 Begun by Walter, deputy of these parts, under William Rufus; but the new choir was not founded till about 1354.
The country near Carlisle consists of small enclosures; but a little farther on, towards Penrith, changes into coarse downs. On the east, at a distance, are ridges of high hills running parallel to the road, with a good inclosed country in the intervening space. Above Penrith is a rich inclosed tract, mixed with hedge-row trees and woods. On the south-west, a prospect of high and craggy mountains. After I left Lockerby, Nature, as if exhausted with her labors in the lofty hills of Scotland, seemed to have lain down and reposed herself for a considerable space; but here began to rise again with all the sublimity of alpine majesty.
Penrith is an antient town, seated at the foot of a hill: is a great thoroughfare for travellers; but has little other trade, except a small one of checks. The church is very neat, the gallery supported by large columns, each formed of a single stone. In the church-yard is a monument of great antiquity, consisting of two stone pillars eleven feet six inches high, and five in circumference in the lower part, which is rounded; the upper is square, and tapers to a point: in the square part is some fret-work, and the relievo of a cross. Both these stones are mortised at their lower part into a round one: they are about fifteen feet asunder; the space between them is inclosed on each side with two very large but thin semicircular stones, so that there is left a walk between pillar and pillar of two feet in breadth. Two of these lesser stones are plain, the other two have certain figures at present scarce intelligible.
Cross the Emot, a small river, and soon after the Lowther, over Yeoman's Bridge, near which I enter
Westmorland. About four miles farther cross Clifton Moor, where the Rebels made a short stand in 1745, and sacrificed a few men to save the rest of their army. Pass over Shap Fells, more black, dreary, and melancholy, than any of the Highland hills, being not only very barren but destitute of every picturesque beauty. This barren scene continued till within a small diftance of
Kendal, a large town on the River Kent, in a rich and beautifull vale, well cultivated, and prettily wooded. Here is a very great trade in knit worsted-stockings, some linsies, and a coarse sort of cloth, called cottons, for the Guinea trade.
Near Burton enter Lancashire. Reach its capital, Lancaster, a large and well-built town, seated on the Lune, a river navigable for ships of 250 tuns as high as the bridge. The custom-house is a small but most elegant building, with a portico supported by four ionic pillars, ona beautifull plain pediment. There is a double slight of steps, a rustic surbase and coins; a work that does much redit to Mr. Gillar, the architect, an inhabitant of this town.
The church is seated on an eminence, and commands an extensive but not pleasing view. The castle is entire, the courts of justice are held in it; and is also the county jail. The front is very handsome, consists of two large angular towers, with a handsome gateway between.
Hastened through Preston, Wiggan, Warrington, and Chester, and finished my journey with a rapture of which no fond parent can be ignorant, that of being again restored to two innocent prattlers after an absence eqully regretted by all parties.

