

A Guide to the Lakes: Dedicated To The Lovers Of Landscape Studies, And To All Who Have Visited, Or Intend To Visit The Lakes In Cumberland, Westmorland, And Lancashire. 
By The Author Of The Antiquities Of Furness. 
Quis non malarum, quas amor curas habet, Haec inter obliviscitur?
 London: Printed for Richardson and Urquhart, under the Royal Exchange, and W. Pennington, Kendal. 1778.

A Guide To The Lakes.

Since persons of genius, taste, and observation, began to make the tour of their own country, and give such pleasing accounts of the natural history, and improving taste, of the northern parts of the British Empire, the curious of all ranks have caught the spirit of visiting the same.
The taste for landscape, as well as for the other objects of the noble art( cherished under the protection of the greatst of kings, and best of men,) in which the genius of Britain rivals ancient Greece and Rome, induce many to visit the lakes of Cumberland, Westmorland, and Lancashire, there to contemplate, in Alpine scenery, finished in nature's highest tints, what refined art labours to imitate; the pastoral and rural landscape, varied in all the stiles, the soft, the rude, the romantic, and sublime. Combinations not found elsewhere assembled within so small a tract of country. Another inducement to making the tour of the lakes, is the goodness of the roads; much improved since Mr. Gray made his tour in 1765, and Mr. Pennant his in 1772. The gentlemen of these counties have set a precedent worthy of imitation in the politest parts of the kingdom, by opening, at private expence, carriage roads, for the ease and safety of such as visit the country; and the public roads are properly attended to. If the entertainment be plain, it is accompanied with a propriety of neatness, attention, and easy charge. When the roads are more frequented, the inns may become more elegantly furnished, and expensive; but the entertainment must remain the same, as the viands at present are not excelled in any other quarter of the empire.
The design of the following sheets, is to encourage the taste of visiting the lakes, by furnishing the traveller with a Guide; and for that purpose are here collected and laid before him, all the select stations, and points of view, noticed by those who have made the tour of the lakes, verified by repeated observations, with remarks on the principal objects as they appear viewed from different stations; with such incidents as will greatly facilitate, and much heighten the pleasure of the tour, and relieve the traveller from the burthen of dull and tedious information on the road, or at the inn, that frequently embarasses, and often misguides.
The local knowledge here communicated, will not affect, much less prevent, the agreeable surprise that attends the first sight of scenes that surpass all description, and of objects which affect the mind of the spectator only in the highest degree.
Such as wish to unbend the mind from anxious cares, or fatiguing studies, will meet with agreeable dissipation and useful relaxation, in making the tour of the lakes. Something new will open itself at the turn of every mountain, and a succession of ideas will be supported by a perpetual change of objects, and display of scenes behind scenes, in a succession of perpetual variety, and endless prespective. In the depth of solitude may be reviewed, in figure, the hurry and bussle of busy life, in all its gradations, in the variety of unshaded rills that hang on the mountain sides, or hasty brooks that warble through the dell, or mighty torrents precipitating themselves at once with thundering noise from tremendous rocky heights; all pursuing one general end, their increase in the vale, and union in the ocean. The contemplative traveller will be charmed with the fight of the sweet retreats, that he will observe in these enchanting regions of calm repose.
Such as spend their lives in cities, and their time in crowds, will here meet with contrasts that enlarge the mind, by contemplation of sublime objects, and raise it from nature, to nature's first cause. Whoever takes a walk with a sense of the creator's power and unlearnable wisdom, in heaping moountains upon mountains, and enthroning rocks upon rocks. Such exhibitions of sublime and beautiful objects surprise and please, exciting at once rapture and reverence.
When change of air is recommended, and exercise for health; the convalescent will find the former here in the purest state, and the latter will be the concomitant of the tour. The many hills and mountains of various heights, separated by narrow vales, through which the air is agitated, and hurried on, by a multiplicity of brooks, and mountain torrents, keep up a constant circulation. The vales and dales being heated by the reverberated solar rays, the air thereby rarified, is refreshed from the tops of the mountains. The water is pure as the air, and on that account recommends itself to the valetudinarian.
There is no person but may find a motive for visiting this extraordinary region; especially those who intend to make the continental tour, should begin here; as it will give, in miniature, an idea of what they are to meet with there, in traversing the Alps and Apennines; to which our northern mountains are not inferior in beauty of line, or variety of summit; not in number of lakes, diversity of fish, and transparency of water; nor in colouring of rock, or softness of turf; but in height and extent only. The mountains here are all accessible to the summit, and furnish prospects no less surprising, with more variety then the Alps themselves. The tops of the highest Alps are inaccessible, being covered with everlasting snow, which, commencing at regular heights above the cultivated tracts, or wooded and verdant sides, form the highest contrast in nature; with all the variety of climate in one view. To this we oppose the sight of the ocean from the summit of all higher mountains, intersected with promotories, interrupted with islands, and animated with navigation; wichh adds greatly to the beauty and variety of the grand views.
Those who have traversed the Alps, who have visited the lake of Geneva, and viewed Mount Blanc, the highest of the Glaciers, from the valley of Chamouni, in Savoy, may still find entertainment in this home tour; where nature, on a reduced scale, has performed wonders in the epitome of her greater works: The analogy of mountainous countries, and their difference, furnishes the observant traveller with amusement; and the travelled visitor of the Cumbrian lakes and mountains, will not be disappointed in this particular.
This Guide will also be of use to the artist in his choice of station, by pointing out the principal objects in a country that abounds in landscape studies, with such variety of scenery. Yet it is not presumed, dogmatically to direct, but only to suggest hints, that may be improved, adopted, or rejected.
The late Mr. Gray was a great judge of perspective; yet whoever makes choice of his station at the three mile stone from Lancaster, will fail in taking one of the finest afternoon rural landscapes in England: The station he points out is a quarter of a mile too low, and somewhat too much to the left. The more advantageous station, as I apprehend, is on the south side of the great, or Queen's road, a little higher than where Mr. Gray stood; for there the vale is in full display, with a longer reach of the river, and the wheel of Lune, formed by a high crowned isthmus, fringd with tall trees, that in times past was the solitary site of a hermit. A few trees, by the other preserved on purpose, conceal the nakedness of Caton Moor on the right, and render the view complete.
By company from the south of the lakes may be visited, beginning with Haws Water, and ending with Coniston or Thurston Water, or vice versa. Mr. Gray began his tour with Ulls Water, but did not visit all the lakes. Mr. Pennant proceeded from Coniston Water to Windermere,& c. but omitted Ulls and Haws Water. Mr. Gray was too late in the season for enjoying the beauties of prospect, and rural landscape, in a mountainous country: For in October the dews lie long on the grass in the morning, and the clouds descend soon in the evening, and conceal the mountains. Mr. Pennant was too early in the spring, when the mountains were mantled with snow, and the dells were darkened with impenetrable mist; hence his gloomy description of the beautiful and romantic vale of St. John, in his journey from Ambleside to Keswick. Flora displays few of her charms early in May, in a country that has been chilled by seven winter months.
The best season for visiting the lakes to advantage, is from the first of June to the end of August. During these months the mountains are decked in all the trim of summer vegetation, and the woods and trees, which hang on the mountains sides, and adorn the banks of the lakes, are robed in the variety of foliage, and summer blooms. In August nature has given her highest tints to all her colours on the enamelled plain, and borders of the lakes. The striking contrast of the rugged cliff, the broken ridge, the overhanging rock, the rent conic summit, and brown vegetation of the mountains sides, with the beautiful hanging inclosures of finest verdure, and at their feet stretched out the smooth surface of the lake, are seen in high perfection. These are also the months favourable to botanick studies; the rare plants are then to be found; such as delight in Alpine heights, or such as are only found in ever shaded dells, or gloomy vales.
The author of The six months tour visited the lakes in the fine season, and saw them all except Coniston and Esthwaite, both Lancashire Lakes; which are on the western side, and lie parallel to Windermere.
Nothing put want of information could have prevented that curious traveller from visiting the whole range of lakes; which had he done, and described their scenery with that accuracy and glow of colour, as he had done the lakes of Keswick, Windermere,& c. a copy of that would have been a sufficient Guide to all who made the same tour.
The author of The excursion to the lakes in Westmorland and Cumberland, takes no notice of the Lancashire lakes; his principal objects are Ulls Water, and the lake of Keswick, whose beauties he describes with much eloquence and profusion of stile, interspersed with not a few political and moral reflections; but at Windermere he vilifies and decries that noble characteristic scenery of the finest lake in England. Of the island, so called by way of preeminence, he is pleased to declaim thus," Upward on the lake we looked on a large island of about thirty acres of meagre pasture ground, in an irregular oblong figure; here and there some mishapen oak trees bend their crooked branches on the sandy brinks, and one little grove of sycamores shelter a cottage. The few natural beauties of this island are wounded and distorted by some ugly rows of firs set in right lines," and the proceeds, in an ungenteel manner, to abuse the owner for want of taste, in laying it out in gardens and pleasure ground, to suit a house he then proposed, and has since built upon it. This author, however, before he takes leave of the lake, does it the honor of giving one of the first landscape painters of his time, Claude Loraine, and his genius Mr. Smith, to pencil forth the rich variety of Windermere. Messrs. Young and Pennant speak of Windermere in very different strains. The first thinks the island the sweetest spot, and full of the greatest capabilities, of any thirty acres of land in the king's dominions; and Mr. Pennant is pleased to say," This delicious isle is blest with a rich pasturage, is adorned with a pretty grove, and has on it a good house." those gentlemen were upon the island, and the author of The excursion was not; and The excursion itself, for the reasons already assigned, is not a complete Guide to the lakes.
The course of visiting the lakes from Penrith, is by Bampton to Haws Water, and return to Penrith. Set out for Keswick, seventeen miles good road. Having seen the wonders of Keswick, and the environs, depart for Ambleside, seventeen miles, excellent mountain road, and affords much entertainment. From Ambleside ride along the side of Windermere, file miles, to Bowness, and, having explored the lake, either return to Ambleside, and from thence to Hawkshead, five miles, or cross Windermere at the horse ferry, to Hawkshead, four miles, the road part of the way is along the beautiful banks of Esthwaite Water. From Hawkshead the road is along the skirts of the Furness Apennines, to the head of Coniston or Thurston Water, three miles, good road. The lake stretches from the feet of Coniston fells to the south, six miles. The road is on the eastern side along its banks to Lowick Bridge, from thence to Ulverston by Penny Bridge, six miles, or by Lowick Hall; good carriage road every where. From Ulverston, by Dalton, to the ruins of Furness Abby, six miles. Return to Ulverston, from thence to Kendal, twenty one miles, or to Lancaster, over the sands, twenty miles.
This order of making the tour of the lakes, is the most convenient for company coming from the north or over Stainmoor; but for such company as come to Lancaster it will be more convenient to begin the visit with Coniston lake. By this course the lakes lie in an order more pleasing to the eye, and grateful to the imagination. The change of scenes is from what is pleasing, to what is surprising, from the delicate and elegant touches of Claude to the noble scenes of Pousin, and, from these, to the stupendous romantic idea of Salvator Rosa.
This Guide shall therefore take up the company at Lancaster, and attend them in the tour to all the lakes; pointing out, what an only be described, the permanent features, the vales, the dells, the groves, the hanging woods, the scattered cots, the steep mountains, the impending cliff, the broken ridge,& c. The accidental beauties depend upon a variety of incidents, from light and shade, the air, the winds, the clouds, the situation with respect to objects, and the time of the day. For though the ruling tints be permanent, the green and gold of the meadow and vale, and the brown and purple of the mountain, the silver grey of the rock, and the azure hue of the cloud topt peak, they are frequently varied by an intermixture of reflection wandering clouds or other bodies, or a sudden stream of sunshine that harmonizes all the parts anew. The pleasure arising from such scenes is personal, and best understood when received.
To render the tour more agreeable, the company should be provided with a telescope, for viewing the fronts and summits of the inaccessible rocks, and the distant country, from the tops of the high mountains Skiddaw and Helvellyn.
The landscape mirror will also furnish much amusement among the mountains. Where the objects are great and near, it removes them to a due distance, and shews them in the soft colours of nature, and most regular prespective the eye can perceive, art teach, or science demonstrate.
The mirror is of greatest use in sunshine, and the person using it ought always to turn his back to the object that he views: It should also be suspended by the upper part of the case, that it may hang perpendicular to the reflected object, and the face be thereby skreened from the sun: The landscape will then be seen in the glass, by holding it a little to the right or left, as the position of the parts to be viewed require. A glass of four inches, or four inches and half diameter, is a size, though the object be near, that will admit a field large enough for the eye to take it at one sweep.
The mirror is a plain convex glass, and should be the segment of a large circle; otherwise distant and small objects are not perceived in it; but if the glass be too flat, the prespective view of great and near objects is less pleasing, by representing them too near. These inconveniences may be provided agaist by two glasses of different convexity. The glass with the black foil answers well in sunshine; but on cloudy and gloomy days, the silver foil answers better.
Whoever uses spectacles upon other occasions, must use them in viewing landscapes in the glass.
Lancaster.

The castle here is the first object that attracts the attention of the curious traveller; the elevation of the site, and magnificence of the front, strike the imagination with the idea of much strength, beauty, and importance; and such it has been ever since the arrival of the Romans in these parts. An eminence of swift descent that commands the fords of a great tiding-river, would not be neglected by so able a general as Agricola; and accordingly, he occupied the crown of this eminence in the summer of his second campaign, and of the christian AEra 79; and here erected a station to secure his conquest, and passes of the river; whilst he proceeded with the army to pass the bay of Morecambe into Furness. The station was called the Longovicum, and in process of time the inhabitants were called Lonovices, i.e. a people dwelling upon the Lon or Lune. This station communicated with Overborough, by exploratory mounts, some of them still remaining on the banks of the Lune; which answered the purposes of guarding the fords of the river, overawing the natives, and communicating with the two stations. That at Halton, Mele, and at the east end of the bridge of Lune, are stile entire. It was connected with the station at Watercrook, near Kendal, by means of the beacon on Warton Crag, and the castellum on the summit of a hill, that rises immediately over Watercrook, at present called Castle Steads.
The town that Agricola found here, belonged to the western Brigantes, and in their language was called Caer Werid, i.e. the green town. The name is still retained in that part of the town called Green Aer, for Green Caer; the British construction being changed, and Werid translated into English.
The green mount, on which the castle stands, appears to be an artefactum of the Romans. In digging into it two years ago, a Roman silver denarium was found at a great depth. The eminence has been surrounded with a deep moat. The present structure is generally supposed to have been built by Edward Iii. but some parts of it seem to be of a higher date. There are three stiles of architecture very evident in the present castle. 1. Round tours, distant from each other about 26 paces, and joined by a wall, and open gallery. On the western side, there remain two entire; and, from their distance, and the visible foundations of others, it appears they have been in number seven, and that the form of the castle was then a polygon. One of these towers is called Adrian's Tower, probably from something formerly standing there dedicated to that emperor. They are two stages high; the lights in narrow slits; the hanging gallery is supported by a single range of corbels, and the lower stages communicated by a close gallery in the wall. Each stage was vaulted with a plain pyramidal vault of great height; those in the more southern towers are entire, and called John Of Gaunt's Ovens; but the calling them so, is as ridiculous as groundless.
Taillebois Baron of Kendal, is the first after the conquest, who was honoured with the command of this castle; and William De Taillebois in the reign of Henry Ii. obtained leave to take the surname of Lancaster; it is therefore probable that the barons of Kendal either built or repaired the ancient castle, in which they resided, until they erected the summer site of the station of Concangium, their castle at Kendal; the remains of some of the bastions there agree in stile with the towers here.
2. The second destinct stile of building in Lancaster Castle, is a square tower of a great height, the lower part of which are small and round headed, ornamented with plain short pillars on each side. The upper part of this magnificent tower is a modern repair; the masonry shews it; and a stone in the battlement in the northern side inscribed
E.R.
1585 R A.
proves that this repair was made in the time of Queen Elizabeth. It is pretty evident that two towers, with the rampart, have been removed to give light and air to the lower windows on the outside of the tower; and it is joined by a wall of communication to Adrian's Tower, that could not be there when the other towers were standing. There are two lesser square towers on the opposite side.
3. The third stile of building is the fron t and gateway; this may be given to Edward Iii. or to his son John Of Gaunt: It fronts to the east, and is a magnificent building in the gothic stile; it opens with a noble and lofty pointed arch, defended by over hanging battlements, supported by a triple range of corbels, cut in form of boultins, the intervals pierced for the descent of missiles; on each side, rise two light watch-towers: Immediately over the gate, is an ornamented niche, which probably once contained the figure of the founder. On one side is still to be seen on a shield, France quartered with England; on the other side, the same, with a label ermine of three points, the distinction of John Of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, fourth son of Edward Iii. the first English monarch that quartered France and England on a shield. N. B. It was Henry V. that reduced the lillies of France to three.
On the north side of the hill, below the church-yard, are some remains of the wall that emcompassed the station; it remains part of the ancient name of the place, being called Wery Wall. Those whose suppose it part of the priory-inclosure wall, that was situated on the north side of the church, may be fascinated by viewing the part of the inclosure-wall yet standing, a thin moulder fabric; whereas the Wery Wall, is a cemented mass, that nothing but great violence can injure. Another fragment of it stands at the stile on the foot-path, under the west end of the church-yard: It is frequently met wth in the church-yard, and its direction is to the western side of the castle. The father of the late William Bradshwaw, of Halton, Esq. remembered the Wery Wall projecting over bridge-lane, pointing directly to the river; this could never be the direction of the priory wall. To say nothing of the name, which tradition has preserved, had Mr. Pennant viewed both, he would not have doubted a moment to join Camden against Leland. At Bridge Lane, it makes an angle, and runs along the brow of the hill, behind the house, in a line to Church Street, which is crosses about Covell CROsl this is attested by the owners of the gardens, who have met with it in that direction, and always find blue clay under the foundation stones.
Though this station was one of the first which the Romans had in those parts, and from its importance, the last they abandoned; yet but few Roman British remains have been discovered at it.
The Caledonians, the unconquered enemies, and greatest plague of the Romans in Britain, were particularly galled and offended with the garrison at Lancaster, it being always the first to oppose them, as often as they invaded the empire, by crossing the Solway Frith; for having taken the advantage of the spring-tides, and darkness of the nights, at the change of the moon, they would escape the garrison at Virosidium, Ellenborough, Arbeia, and Moresby; and skulking along the Cumberland coast, crossed the Morecambe Bay, and were first discovered on the banks of the Lune. Here they were opposed by the townsmen, who kept the garrison, and if they did not immediately return by the way they came, the alarm brought upon them the garrisons from Overborough, Watercrook, and Ambleside, who surrounded and cut them off. Hence arose a particular hatred to the Lancastrians, which time and repeated injuries fomented into rage. In the end, the barbarous clans, following close upon the heels of the flying Romans, would in a particular manner satiate their desire of revenge upon the helpless Lancastrians, by sacking and destroying their town and fortifications, that such another at no time might oppose their invasions. The Saxons arriving soon after, raised on the ruins, the town that remains to this day. So it may be inferred, that the present town of Lancaster stands on a magazine of British Roman antiquities. This is verified by diging under any of the ancient houses, where it appears that the earth has been moved, and Roman remains are frequently found. Beside what Dr. Leigh mentions, there are many recent instances that proves the conjecture.
In the year 1772. in digging a celler, where an old house had stood in the centre of the town, was found reversed in a bed of fine sand, above five feet under ground, a square stone, of four feet, by two and a half,( a foot and two inches being broken of the lower corner on the right hand side, so as to render the inscription obscure), the letters elegantly formed, square, and about three inches high. The inscription had consisted of eight or nine lines, of which sif are entire, and of easy explanation; the loss in the seventh is readily supplied, but the eighth must be made out by the common stile of such votive stones. The elegance of the letters pronounce them to be the work of the best times, but the two small letters in the third and fifth line, reduce it to the age of the Emperor Gordian; and if the three small letters have been occasioned by the omission of the sculptor, then it will be of higher antiquity. It is known by inscriptions found at Olenacum( Old Carlisle,) that the Augustan wing mentioned in this inscription, was stationed there in the time of Gordian; but from this inscription, it seems to have also been at Lancaster. This memorable stone is now to be seen in the rare collection of Ashton Lever Esq; in Leicester House, London.
Two years ago, in sinking a cellar in an old house in Church Street, some cart loads of fragments of Roman earthen-ware were thrown out, urns, patera,& c, many of them finely glazed, and elegantly marked with emblematic figures; some copper coins; and an entire lamp, with a turned up, perforated handle, to hang it by, the nozel of which is black from use. At the depth of two yards were also found a great number of human bones, small and large, with burnt ashes, a wall of great thickness, and a well, filled with rubbish of the same kind, probably leading to a vault where remains are deposited; but the curious must for ever regret, that no further search was made.
What throws new light upon the station here, is the late discovery of a Roman pottery by the honourable Edward Clifford, in his estate of Quarmore, near Lancaster. That the works have been very considerable, may be guessed, from the space of discoloured with borken ware, and the holes from whence the clay has been taken, with the great variety of bricks, tiles, and vessels that are found; but the greatest discovery is, upon a tile with turned-up ledges, impressed with a stamp on each end, Ale Sebusia, a wing of cavalry not heard of before. The same inscription is found on bricks, the label smaller, and letters Ala Sebusia. The shape of the second letter in the first word, is like that in the inscription on the rock near Brampton in Cumberland, supposed to be cut in the time of the Emperor Severus A. D. 207, and is the fifth L in Horseley's alphabet. On the brick the letters are square, from which may be inferred that this wing was long stationed at Lancaster.
This town ever since the conquest, is renowned for loyalty and attachment to established government; for which King John honoured it with as amaple a charter, as he had confered on the burgesses of Bristol and Northampton. Charles Ii. exemplified and confirmed the same, with additional privleges; but Lancaster derived its greatest lusture and importance, from the title it gave to Edmund, second son of Henry Ii. and to his issue, Dukes of Lancaster, and Kings of England, of the Lancastrian; line but in the end suffered much by supporting their title to the crown, in the contest with the house of York. So little had it retrieved itself when Camden visited it, 1609, that he speaks of it, as not populous, and that the inhabitants were all husbandmen. Since that time it is much enlarged; the new houses are neat and handsome, the streets well paved, and thronged with inhabitants, busied in a prosperous trade to Guinea, and the West Indies. Along a fine quay, noble warehouses are built; and when it shall please those concerned, to deepen the shoals in the river, ships of great burden may come up close to the warehouses; at present, only such can come up as do not exceed 250 tons.
The air of Lancaster is salubrious, the environs pleasant, the inhabitants wealthy, courteous, hospitable, and polite. The church is a handsome gothic structure; the beautiful east window is obstructed by a tall skreen behind the alter, and the church is further hurt by a multiplicity of pews. The only remains of ancient furniture are a few turn-up seats, carved in the stile of the times when it belonged to the priory of St. Martin of Sayes in France; some of the carvings are fine, but the figures are either gross or grotesque. It stands on the crown of an eminence below the castle, from which it is only separated by the moat. The views from the church-yard are extensive and pleasant, particularly the grand and much admired prospect of the northern mountains. The new chapel is a neat and more commodious place of worship. There are also in this town, presbyterian, quaker, and methodist meeting houses, and a Romish chapel. When the present incommodious bridge was lately repaired, some brass pieces of money were found under a foundation stone; from which, it is conjectured to be of Danish origin. A more ancient bridge stood higher up the river at Skerton town-end; a situation much more convenient, and would make a fine enterance, which Lancaster is defective in.
Before you leave Lancaster, take a ride to the three mile-stone, on the road to Hornby, and have Mr. Gray's most noble view of the vale of Lonsdale, which he, or his editor describes in these words, in the note, page 373. " This scene opens just three miles from Lancaster, on what is called the Queen's road. To see the view in perfection you must go into a field on the left. Here Ingleborough, behind a variety of lesser mountains, makes the back-ground of the prospect; on each hand of the middle distance, rise two sloping hills, the left cloathed with thick wood, the right with variegated rock and herbage. Between them, in the richest of the vallies, the Lune serpentizes for many a mile, and comes forth ample and clear through a well-wooded and richly pastured foreground. Every feature which constitutes a perfect landscape of the extensive sort, is here not only boldly marked, but also in its best position."
From Lancaster to Hest Bank, four miles, set out with the Ulverstone carriers at the stated hour, or take a guide for the sands, called Lancaster Sands, nine miles over. On a fine day there is not a more pleasant sea side ride in the kingdom. On the right, a bold shore, deep indented in some places, and opening into bays in others; valleys open to the view that stretch far into the country, bounded on each side by hanging grounds, cut into inclosures, interspersed with groves and hanging woods, adorned with sequestered cots, farms, villages, churches, and castles; mountains behind mountains, and others just seen over them, close the fore scene. Claude has not introduced Soracte on the Tyber in a more happy point of view, than Ingleborough appearing during the course of this ride. At entering on the sands, to the left, Heysham point rises abruptly, and the village hangs on it's side in a beautiful manner. Ovr a vast extent of sands, see Peel Castle, the ancient bulkwark of the bay, rear its venerable head above the tide. In front appears a fine sweep of country, sloping to the south. On the right Warton Crag presents itself in a bold stile; on its arched summit are the vistages of a square encampment, and the ruins of a beacon. Grounds bearing from the eye, variegated in every pleasing form, by woods, variety of pastured grounds, and rock, for many a mile are terminated by cloud-topt Ingleborough. A little further on to the right, another vale opens to the sands, and shews a broken ridge of rocks, and beyond them are seen groups of mountains towering to the sky. Castle Steads, a pyramidal hill, that rises above the station at Kendal, is now in sight. At the bottom of the bay stands Arneside ancient Tower, once a mansion of the Stanleys. The Cartmel coast, as you advance, becomes more pleasing. Betwixt that and Silverdale Nab, a pyramidal mountain of naked grey rock, is a great break in the coast, and through it the River Kent rolls its waters to join the tide. In the mouth of the estury are two beautiful conical Isles, cloathed in wood and sweet verdure: As you advance towards them, they seem to change their situation, and vary their appearance. At the same time a grand view opens of the Westmorland mountains, tumbled about in a most surprising manner. At the head of the estuary, under a beautiful green hill, Heversham village and church appear in fine perspective. To the north Whitbarrow Scar, a hugh arched and bended cliff, of an immence height, shews a storm-beaten front. The intermediate space is a mixture of rocks, and woods, and cultivated patches, that form a romantic view. As you approach, a guide on horse back, called the carter, is in waiting, to conduct passengers over the ford. The priory of Cartmel was charged with this important office, and had synodal and peterpence allowed towards the maintainance of this guide. Since the dissolution of the priory, it is held by patent of the duchy of Lancaster, and the salary twenty pounds per ann. is paid by the receiving general.
Cartmel is a small district belonging to Lancashire, but united to Westmorland a little below Bowness, on Windermere, and from thence extends itself betwixt the rivers Leven and Kent, intersecting the great bay of Morecambe. It is three miles across from Cark Lane, where you quit the sands to Sand Yet. Pass through Flookborough, once a market-town, by charter granted to the prior of Cartmel, lord paramount, from King Edward I. The only thing worthy of notice, is the church of Cartmel, a handsome gothic edifice. The east window is finely ribbed with pointed arches, light and elegant; the painted glass is almost defaced. The preservation of this edifice reflects honour on the memory of George Preston, of Holker Esq; who, at his own expence new roofed the whole, and decorated the inside with a stucco ceiling; the choir and chancel he also repaired, suiting the new parts to the ancient remains of the canons seats, thereby preserving the ancient form entire. Persons uninformed of this, always take it to be the same it was before the dissolution. The stile of the building, like most of it contemporaries, is irregular. The pointed and round arch is contrasted, and the fine clustered pillar faces the heavy octagonal. The form is a cross, in length 157 feet; the transept 110 feet; the height of the walls 57 feet. The tower on the center is a singular construction, being a square within a square, the higher set at cross angles within the lower: This gives it an off appearance on all sides, but may have some reference to the octagonal pillars in the church, and both to the memory of something now forgotten. It was built and endowed with the manor of Cartmel by William Mariscal, the elder, Earl of Pembroke, in 1188, according to some; but as in the foundation deed mention is made of Henry Ii. Richard, and Henry the younger, his lord the King, it appears rather to have been founded in the beginning of that reign; for Willia the elder, Earl of Pembroke, died in the fourth of fifth year of that reign, viz. Henry Iii. He gave it to the canons regular of St. Austin, reserving to himself and his heirs the right of granting to them the conge deslire of a prior, who should be independent of all others, and never to be erected into an abbey. Under the north wall, a little below the altar, is the tombstone of Willaim De Walton, prior of Cartmel: He is mentioned in the confirmation diploma of Edward Ii. and must have been one of the first priors. Opposite to this is a magnificent tomb of a Harrington, and his lady, which Mr. Pennant thinks may be of Sir John Harrington, who in 1305 was summoned by Edward I." with numbers of other gallant gentlemen to meet him at Carlisle, and attend him on his expedition into Scotland," but it agrees better with a John De Harrington, called John of Cartmel, or his son of Wrasham Tower, in Cartmel, as Sir Daniel Fleming's account of that family has it, M. s. L.A. I: 132. The head of the Harrington family, Sir John Harrington, in the reign of Edward I. was of Aldingham, and lived at Gleaston Castle in Furness, and died in an advanced age, 1347; and is more probably the Sir John Harrington mentioned in Dugdale's baronage, and summonded by Edward I. There is not one vestige of the monastry remaining. There is a gate house, but whether this was connected with the cloisters or not, tradition is silent, and the distance from the church in unfavourable to the conjecture.
Proceed through rocky fields and groves to Holker, one mile, the seat of the right honourable Lord George Cavendish; the carriage road is by Cark Hall. At the top of the hill, there opens a fine view of Furness. Holker Hall lies at your feet, embosomed in wood; on the left Ulverston bay opens into the great bay, and is four miles over. The coast is deeply indented, and the peninsulas are beautifully fringed with wood. On the right, a bold bending rock presents a noble arched forehead, and a fine slope of inclosed grounds, mixed with wood, leads the eye to Ulverston, the port and mart of Furness. Conishead shews its pyramidal head, completely clothed in wood; at its feet the priory, shielded by a wing of hanging wood, that climbs up the side of a steep hill. Bardsey, under its rocks and hanging woods, stands in a delightful point of view; in front a sweet fall of inclosures, marked with clumps of trees and hedge rows, gives it a most picturesque appearance. A white house on the sea bank, under the cover of a deep wood, has a most inchanting appearance. The coast from that is of singular beauty, of hanging woods, inclosed land, and pasture grounds, varied in every pleasing form; and where an extensive view can charm, this must. Descend to Holker, which adds to the scenes what is peculiar to itself, with the improvements of the noble owner, finished in a masterly stile. The traveller will here observe husbandry in a more flourishing way then in the country he is soon to visit. The farmers here, as elsewhere, are slow in imitating new practices; but the continued success which attends his lordship's improvements has not failed in effecting a reformation amongst the Cartmel farmers.
In crossing Leven Sands to Ulverston, you have on the right a grand view of Alpine scenery. A rocky hill, patched with wood and heath, rising immediately from the coast, directs the eye to an immense chain of lofty mountains, increased in magnitude and height, since they were seen from Hestbank. On a fine morning, this is a pleasant ride; when the mountains are strongly illuminated by the sun-beams, and patched with shadows of intervening clouds that fail along their sides, or over their summits drag their watery skirts, through which the sun-beams streaming, gild their rocky heads with silver, and variegate their olive coloured sides with stripes of gold and green. This fairy scene soon shifting, all is concealed in a mantle of azure mist. At the eya, or ford of the River Leven, another carter conducts you over. On the dissolution of the priory of Conishead, King Henry Viii charged himself and successors with the payment, which the guide received from the priory, fifteen marks per ann. and the office is held, and the salary is paid as to the other carter.
Ulverston, the London of Furness, is a neat town, at the foot of a swift descent to the south-east; the streets regular, and excellently well paved. The weekly market for Low Furness has been long established here, to the prejudice of Dalton, the ancient capital of Furness. The articles of export are, iron ore in great quantities, pig and bar iron, oats, barley, beans, potatoes, bark, nd limestone. The principal inns are kept by the guides, who pass to and from Lancaster, on sunday, tuesday, and friday, in every week. The entertainment is good, the attendance civil, and charge reasonable.
Make an excursion to the west, three miles, and visit the greatest iron mines in England. At Whitrigs the works are carried on with much spirit, by driving of levels into the bosom of the mountain. The ore is found in a limestone stratum, mixed with a variety of spars of a dirty colour. There is much quartz in some of the works that admits of a high polish. At present the works in Stone Close and Adgarly are the most flourishing that have been known in Furness. The mineral is not hurtful to animal or vegetable; the verdure is remarkably fine about the workings; and no one ever suffered by drinking the water in the mines, through discoloured and much impregnated with the ore. By Dalton to the magnificent ruins of Furness Abbey, and there
" See the wild waste of all devouring years, How Rome her own sad sepulchre appears, With nodding arches, broken temples spread, The very tombs now vanish like the dead."
This abbey was founded by Stephen Earl of Morton and Bulloign, afterwards King of England, A.D. 1127, and was endowed with the lordship of Furness, and many royal privileges. It was peopled from the monastry of Savigny, in Normandy, and dedicated to St. Mary. In ancient writings it is stiled St. Mayre's of Furness. The monks were of the order of Savigny, and their dress was grey cloth; but on receiving St. Bernard's form, they changed from grey to white, and became Cistercians; and such they remained till the dissolution of monasteries.
The situation of this abbey, so favourable to contemplative life, justifies the choice of the first settlers. Such a sequestered site, in the bottom of a deep dell, through which a hasty brook rolls its murmuring strean, and along which the roaring west wind, joined with the deep-toned mattin song, must have been favourable to the solemn melancholy of monastic life.
To prevent surprise, and call in assistance, a beacon was placed on the crown of the eminence, that rises immediately from the abbey, and is seen over all Low Furness. The door leading to the beacon is still remaining in the inclosure wall, on the eastern side. The magnitude of the abbey may be known from the dimensions of the ruins; and enough is standing to shew the stile of the architecture. The round and pointed arches occur in doors and windows; the fine clustered gothic, and the heavy plain Saxon pillars, stand contrasted. The walls shew excellent masonry, in many places counter-arched, and the ruins a strong cement. The east window has been noble, and some of the painted glass that once adorned it, is preserved in a window in Windermere church. On the outside of the window under an arched festoon, is the head of the founder, and opposite it, that of Maud his Queen; both crowned, and well executed. In the south wall and east end of the church, are four seats, adorned with gothic ornaments; in these the officiating priest, with his attendants, sat at intervals, during the solemn service of high mass. In the middle space lies a procumbent figure of a man in armour, cross legged, in the place where the first barons of Kendal lie interred. The chapter house has been a noble room of sixty feet by forty five. The vaulted roof, formed of twelve ribbed arches, was supported by six pillars in two rows, at thirteen feet distance from each other, and the side walls; supposing each pillar two feet diameter, which divided the room into three alleys or passages of thirteen feet wide. At the enterance, the middle only could be seen, lighted by a pair of tall pointed windows at the upper end of the room; the company in the side passage would be concealed by the pillars, and the vaulted roof, that groined those pillars, would have a true gothic disproportioned appearance, of sixty feet, by thirteen. The two side alleys were lighted each by a pair of similar lights, besides a pair on each side at the upper end, at present entire, and illustrate what is here said. Thus whilst the upper end of the room had a profusion of light, the lower end would be in the shade. The noble roof of this singular edifice did by lately fall in; the entrance or porch is still up, a fine circular arch, beautified with a deep cornish, as also a portico on each side. The only entire roof now standing is of a building without the inclosure wall. It was a school-house for the children of the abbot's tenants, and is a single ribbed arch, that groins from the walls.
There is a general disproportion remarkable in gothic churches, which must have originated in some effect intended by all the architects; perhaps to strike the mind with reverential awe at the sight of magnificence, arising from the vastness of two dimensions, the third seemingly disregarded; or perhaps such proportion of height and length was found more favourable than any other to the church song, by giving a deeper swell to the choir of chaunting monks. A remarkable deformity in this edifice, and for which there is no apparent reason, or necessity, is, that the north door, which is the principal enterance, is on one side of the window over it. The tower has been supported by four magnificent arches, of which only one remains entire, they rested upon four tall pillars, three are finely clustered, the fourth is of a plain unmeaning construction.
From the abbey, if on horse-back, return by Newton, Stainton, and Adgarly. See on the right a deep embayed coast, the islands of Walney, Foulney, and Peel Castle;-- a variety of extensive views on all sides. At Adgarly the new works are carried on under the old workings; the richest iron ore is found here in immense quantities; one hundred and forty tons have been raised at one shaft in twenty four hours. To the right have a view of the ruins of Gleaston Castle, the seat of the Flemings soon after the conquest; and by a succession of mariages, it went to Cansfield, then to Harrington, who enjoyed it six descents, after that to Bonville, and lastly to Gray, and was forfeited by Henry Gray Duke of Suffolk , A.D. 1559. Leaving Urswick behind, ascend Birkrig, a rocky eminence, and from the beacon have a variety of extensive and pleasant views, of land and sea, mountains and islands. Ulverston appears seated under a hanging wood, and behind that Furness Fells, in various shapes, form the grandest fore-ground that can be imagined. The back view is the reverse; when the tide is up, a fine arm of the sea stretching far within land, terminated by bold rocks and steep shores; across this expanse of sea a far country is seen, a Lancaster town and castle is perceived in a fine point under a screen of high grounds, over which sable Clougha rears his venerable head. Ingleborough, behind many other mountains, has a fine effect from this station. If in a carriage, return from the abbey by Dalton. This village is sweetly situated on the crest of a rocky eminence, sloping to the morning sun. upper-end is a square town, where formerly the abbot held his secular court, and secured his prisoners; the keep is in the bottom of the tower, a dismal dungeon. This village, being conveniently situated in a fine sporting country, is honoured with an annual hunt, begun by the late Lord Strange, and is continued by his son, the truly noble Earl of Derby. It commences the monday after the 24th of October, and continues two whole weeks. For the better accommodation of the company, two excellent long rooms were built about four years ago, and called Sportsman's Hall. Return to Ulverston and from thence to the priory of Conishead, the paradise of Furness, a Mount Edgcumbe in miniature; it well deserves a visit from the curious traveller. The house stands on the site of the priory of Conishead, at the foot of a fine eminence, and the ground falls gently from it on all sides; the slopes are planted with shrubs and trees in such a manner as improve the elevation; and the waving woods that fly from it on each wing give an airy and noble appearance. The south front is in the modern taste, extended by an arcade; the north is in the gothic stile, with a piazza; the offices on this side form wings. The appartments are elegantly furnished; and the house is a good and convenient one: But what recommends itself most to the curious is a plan of pleasure ground, on a small scale, raised by improvement, to equal one of the greatest in England. The variety of culminated grounds, and winding slopes, comprehended within this sweet spot, furnishes all the advantage of mountains and vales, woods and water. By the judicious management of these assemblages, the late owner did work wonders; and by well consulting the genius of the place called in to aid his plan, and harmonized the features of a country vast in extent, and by nature highly picturesque, whose distant parts answering, form a magnificent whole. Besides the ornamental grounds, the views from the house are both pleasing and surprising, pastoral, rural and marine. On one hand a fine estuary, spotted with rocks, isles, and peninsulas, a variety of shore, deeply indented in some places, in others composed of noble arched rocks, craggy, broken, and fringed with wood; other these hanging woods, intermixed with cultivated inclosures, covered with a back ground of stupendious mountains. The contrast of this view, at the other end of the gravel walk, between two culminating hills covered with tall wood, is seen, in fine perspective, a rich cultivated dale, divided by hedgerow trees, beyond these hanging grounds cut into inclosures, with scattered farms; above all, a long range of waving pasture ground and sheep walks, shining in variety of vegetation. This sweet pastoral picture is heightened much by the deep shade of the towering wooded hills, between which it is viewed. Turn to the left, the scenery is all reversed. Under a range of tall sycamores, an expanse of water bursts upon the eye, and beyond it, land just visible through the azure mist. Vessels traversing this bay are seen in a most picturesque manner, and from the lower windows, appear failing through the trees, and approaching the house, till they drop anchor just under the windows. The range of sycamores has a fine effect in this sea view, by breaking the line in the watery plane, and forming an elegant frame to a very excellent picture. By turning a little to the right the prospect changes; at the head of a sloping inclosure, and under the skirts of a steep wood, a sequestered cottage stands in the point of beauty.
There is a great variety of pleasing views from the different meandering walks and seats in the wood: At the moss-house, and the seat in the bottom of the wood, where Ulverston and the environs make a pretty picture. Under the shrubbery, on the eastern side of the house, and from the gate at the north end of the walk, in the afternoon and sun shining, behind a swell of green hills, the conical summits of distant mountains are seen, glistening like burnished gold in the sun beams, and pointing to the heavens in a noble stile. But as this sweet spot is injured by description, I shall only add that it is a great omission in the curious traveller, to be in Furness, and not to see this wonderful pretty place, to which nature has been so profuse in noble gifts, directed by the assistance she has had, under the conduct of an elegant fancy, a correct judgement, and refined taste.
Coniston Lake.

From Ulverston to Coniston Lake, six miles, is either by Penny Bridge, or by Lowick, excellent carriage road. By Lowick the road is along a narrow vale, beautifully divided by hanging inclosures, and scattered farms, half way up the mountains sides, whose various heads are covered with heath, and brown vegitation. About four miles from Ulverston, you have a distant view of the lake, finely intersected with high crowned peninsulas; at the upper end a snow white house is seen under a hanging wood, and to the N. E. the lake seems to wind round the mountains feet. The whole range of Coniston fells is now in sight, and under them a lower sweep of dark rocks frown over the crystal surface of the lake. Advancing, on the left see Lowick Hall, once the seat of a family of that name; behind this a dismal scene of barreness presents itself; clustered grey rocky mountains, variegated with some few stripes of heath. After crossing the outlet of the lake at Lowick Bridge, these scenes of barrness are often intercepted by pieces of arable ground, hanging sweetly to the east, and cut into waving inclosures, with cottages prettily situated under ancient oaks, or venerable yews. The white houses, in these parts, covered with blue slate, have a neat apperance: The thatched cot is esteemed a more picturesque object, yet the other, seen under a deep green wood, or covered by a purple back-ground of heath, variegated with grey rocks and ever-greens, have a pleasing effect.
Reach the south end of the lake: Here it is narrowed by rocky prominences from both sides, forming between their curvatures, a variety of pretty bays. The whole length of the lake is about six measured miles, and the greanest breadth about three quarters of a mile; the greatest depth, by report, exceeds not forty fathom. A little higher, the broadest part commences, and stretches, with small curvatures, to Water Head. The shores are frequently indented, and one pretty bay opens after another in variety of forms.
Station I. A little above the villiage of Nibthwaite the lake opens in full view. From the rock, on the left of the road, you have a general view of the lake upward. This station is found by observing an ash tree on the west side of the road, and passing that till you are in a line with the peninsula, the rock is then at your feet. On the opposite shore, to the left, and close by the water's edge, are some stripes of meadow and green ground, cut into small inclosures, with some dark coloured houses under aged yews and tall pine trees; two promontories project a great way into the lake, the broadest is finely terminated by steep rocks, and crowned with wood; both are insulated when the lake is high. Upwards, over a fine sheet of water, the lake is again intersected by a far projecting promontory, that swells into two eminences; and betwixt them the lake is again caught, with some white houses at the feet of the mountains; and more to the right, over another headland, you catch a fourth view of the lake, twisting to the N. E. Almost opposite to this, stands a house on the crown of a rock, covered with ancient trees, that has a most romantic appearance.
The noble scenery increases as you ride along the banks; in some places bold rocks, lately covered with woods, conceal the lake entirely, and when the wind blew, the beating of surges were heard just under you; in other places abrupt openings shew the lake anew, and when calm, its limpid surface, shining like a chrystal mirror, reflecting the azure sky; or chequered with dappled clouds the vaulted canopy of heaven, in the finest mixture of nature's clare-obscure. On the western side the shore is more variegated with small inclosures; scattered cots, and groves and meadows grace the banks.
The road continues along the eastern banks of the lake; here bare, these sweetly fringed with a few tall trees, the small remains of its ancient woods that lately clothed the whole.
Station Ii. When you are opposite to the peninsula last described take in at a gate on the left hand, and from the rocky eminence you have a general view of the lake both ways. To the south a sweet bay is formed between the horns of two peninsulas, and beyond that a fine sheet of water appears, terminated by the promontories which form the straits through which the lake has its outlet. From that the coast is beautifully diversified by a number of green enimences, crowned with wood, and interspersed amongst them sequestered cottages, half concealed by tall yew trees; and above them a wave of rocky spiral mountains dressed in brown vegitation, form most romantic scenes. Between this and a wooded eminence, a green hill, cut into inclosures to the very top, in some parts patched with rock and little groves has a beautiful appearance, contrasted with the barren scenes on one hand, and the deep shade of a waving wood on the other. At the foot of this cultivated tract, and on the margin of the lake, a few white houses, partly concealed in a grove of yews, look like enchanted seats on a fairy ground. Behind these a barren bleak mountain frowns in sullen majesty, and down his furrowed side the Black Beck or Torver rolls with mighty noise. Just at your feet lies the oblong rocky isle of Peel, and near it the dark points of half drowned rocks just shew themselves by turns. Here is the finest picture of the lake, and when it is smooth, the whole is seen reflected on the shining surface of the watery mirror. On the western side, the coast is steep rocks; the eastern side is much embayed. The high end of the lake is here in view, yet it seems to wind both ways behind the opposite promontories. The range of naked rocks, that cross the head of the lake, appear now awful from their sable hue, and behind the, the immense mass of Cove, Rydal Head, and many nameless mountains, have a most stupendous appearance, and inaccessible height. A succession of pretty bays opens to the traveller as he advances; the banks become more wooded, and more cultivation appears. On the western margin stands the lade of the lake, Coniston Hall, and above it the village of the same name; it has only changed masters twice since the conquest, and has belonged to the family of Fleming most of the time.
Station Iii. The next grand view is in the boat, and in the centre of the lake, opposite to Coniston Hall. Looking towards the mountains, the lake spreads itself into a noble expanse of transparent water, and bursts into a bay on each side, bordered with verdant meadows, and inclosed with grounds rising in a various and exceeding bold manner; the objects are diversified in the simple and natural order, and contrasted by the fine transition of rural elegance, and pastoral beauty; cultivation and pasturage, waving woods and sloping inclosures, adorned by nature, and improved by art, under the bold sides of stupendous mountains, whose airy summits, the turned-up eye cannot now reach, and deny all access to the human kind.
Following the line of shore from Coniston Hall to the upper end of the lake, the village of Coniston is in full view, and consists of seats, groups of houses, farms, and cots, scattered in a picturesque manner over the cultivated slope; some snow white, others grey; some stand forth on bold eminences at the head of green inclosures, backed with steep woods; others are pitched on swift declivities, and seem hanging in the air; some are on a level with a lake; all are neatly covered with blue slate, the produce of the mountains, and beautified with ornamental yews, hollies, and tall pines, or firs. This is a charming scene when the morning fun gilds the whole with a variety of tints. In the point of beauty and centre of perspective, a white house under a hanging wood gives life to this picture; yet is somewhat injured by a cot that stands on the foreground, between it and the lake, and interrupts the harmony of this sweet landscape; the range of dark rugged rocks, rise abruptly and deeply contrast the transparent surface of the lake, and the stripe of verdure that skirts their feet. The eastern shore is not less bold and embayed. The slate brought down from the mountains is laid up here, till put on board boats that transport it to the water-foot.
It will be allowed that the views on this lake are beautiful and picturesque, yet they please more than surprise. The hills that immediately inclose the lake are ornamental, but humble; the mountains at the head of the lake are great, noble, and sublime, without any thing that is horrid or terrible; they are bold and steep without the projecting precipice, the overhanging rock, or pendent cliff. The hanging woods, waving inclosures, and airy sites, are elegant, beautiful, and romantic; and the whole may be seen with ease and pleasure. In a fine morning there is not a more pleasant rural ride; and the beauties of the lake are seen in a true light, and fine order. In the afternoon, if sunshine, much of the effect is lost by the change of light; and such as visit it from the north lose all the charms arising from the swell of the mountains, by turning their backs upon them.
The char here are said to be the finest in England; they are fished later than on Windermere, and continue longer in the spring.
At Waterhead, the road to the east leads to Ambleside, eight miles, to Hawkshead, three. Ascend a steep hill, surrounded with wood, and have a back view of the lake. To the north is a most awful scene of mountains heaped upon mountains, in every variety of horrid shape; amongst them sweeps to the north a deep winding chasm darkened by overhanging rocks, that the eye cannot pierce, nor the imagination fathom; from which turn your face to the east, and have a peep at some part of Windermere. The road soon divides, the left leads to Ambleside, the right to Hawkshead, which stands under the mountain, at the upper end of a narrow valley. The church is seated on the front of an eminence, that commands the valley, which is floated with the lake of Esthwaite Water, two miles it length, and half a mile in breadth, intersected by a peninsula from each side, jutting far into the lake, finely elevated, the crowns cultivated, and the borders fringed with trees and low wood. The lake is encompassed with a good carriage road, and over its outlet is a narrow stone bridge: On the banks are villages, and scattered houses, sweetly situated under woods, and hanging grounds, enamelled with delightful verdure, and soft vegetation, heightened by the deep shade of the woods, and the strong back-ground of rocky mountains. At the head of a gentle slope, and just elevation, a handsome modern house, Bell Mont, is charmingly situated, and commands a delightful view of the lake, with all the environs.
The fish here are perch, pike, and eels; no trout or char frequent this lake, though it be connected with Windermere.
From Hawkshead to Ambleside, five miles; to the horse-ferry on Windermere, three miles; on horse-back this is the more eligable rout, as it lead immediately to the centre of the lake, where all its beauties are seen to the greatest advantage.
Windermere

The Windermere, like Coniston Lake, is viewed to the greatest advantage by facing the mountains, which rise in grandeur on the ey, and swell upon the imagination as they are approached.
The road to the ferry is round the head of Esthwaite Water, through the villages of Colthouse and Sowreys; ascend a steep hill, and from its summit, have a view of the long reach of Windermere, stretching far to the south, till lost between two high promontories. The road serpentizes round a rocky mountain, till you come under the broken scar, that in some places hangs over the way. Ancient yews and hollies grow here fantastically amongst the fallen rocks.
Station I. Near the isthmus of the ferry point, observe two small oak trees that inclose the road, these will guide you to this celebrated station. Behind the tree on the western side ascend to the top of the nearest rock, and from thence in two views command all the beauties of this magnificent lake. The trees are of singular use in answering the purposes of fore-ground, and of intersecting the lake; the rock rises perpendicular from the lake, and forms a pretty bay; in front Ramps Holm( Berkshir Island) presents itself in all its length, cloathed in wood. To the left the ferry point, closing with Crow Holm, a wooded island, form a fine promontory. Just behind this, the mountain retiring inward, a semicircular bay is formed, surrounded with a few acres of the most elegant verdure, sloping upward from the water's edge, graced with a cottage, in the fine point of view; above it the mountain rises in agreeable wildness, variegated with scattered trees, and silver grey rocks. An extent of water, of twelve miles circumference, spreads itself to the north, frequently intersected with promontories, or spotted with islands: Amongst them the Holm, or great island, an oblong tract of thirty acres, traverses the lake in an oblique line, surrounded by a number of inferior isles, finely formed, and drest in wood. The curlew crags, pointed dark rocks, appear above the water, and others just concealed, give a fable hue to that part of the lake. Rough Holm, is a circular isle, covered with trees. Lady Holm, an isle of an oval form, is vested with copice wood. Hen Holm, is a rock covered with shrubs. Gras Holm is at present shaded with a grove of oaks. And two smaller islets borrow their name form the lillies of the valley, which decorate them; these with Crow Holm and Berkshire Island, form the Archipelago.
To the north of this magnificent scene, a glorious sheet of water expands itself to the right and left, in curves bearing from the eye, bounded on the west by the continuation of the mountain where you stand, whose bold lofty side is embellished with distant growing trees, and shrubs, and coarse vegitation, intermixed with grey rocks, that group finely with the deep green yews and hollies. The eastern shore is a noble contrast, adorned with all that is beautiful, grand, and sublime. The immediate shore is much cultivated; the variety of hanging grounds are immense; woods, groves, inclosures, all terminating in rocky uplands of various forms. The shore upward is spread out in beautiful variety of waving inclosures, intermixed with hanging woods and shrubby spots in circles, and in every waving line of beauty, overtopped with wild grounds, and rocky ridges of broken mountains. The shore in some places swells into spacious bays, in parts fringed with trees; their bushy heads wave over the crystal flood. The parsonage house is seen, sweetly seated under a fringe of tall firs. Following the same line of shore, above the east ferry point, and on the banks of the bay, the tops of the houses, and church of Windermere, are just seen. Above that, Bannerig and Orrist Head, rise gradually into points, cultivated to the top, and cut into inclosures; these are contrasted by the rugged crags of Biscot Hoe. Troutbec Park comes next in view, and over that Ill Bell rears his conic head, and Fairfirld swells in Alpine pride, rivalled by Rydal's loftier head.
The eastern coast, to the south of what has been described, is still more pleasing, in variety of little groves, and interposed inclosures, with scattered houses, sweetly secreted. To the south, and from the western coast, at three miles distance, Rawlinson's - Nab, a high crowned promontory, shoots far into the lake and from the opposite shore, the Stores, another wooded promontory, stretching far into the water pointing at the rocky isle of Ling Holm. Over Rawlinson's - Nab the lake spreads out in a magnificent sheet of water, and following the winding shore far to the south, is lost behind a promontory on the eastern side. Over to woody mountains, Park and Landen Nab, the blue summits of distant mountains waving in various forms, close the scene.
 Six month's Tour Vol 3d. page 176.
 Tour in Scotland page 33.
Having from this station enjoyed these charming views, descend to the ferry-house, and proceed to the great island, where you again see all that is charming on the lake, all that is magnificent and sublime in the environs, in new points of view.
Of this sequestered spot Mr. Young speaks in rapture, and Mr. Pennant has done it much honour by his description. But alas! it is no more to be seen in that beautiful unaffected state that those gentlement saw it in. The sweet secreted cottage, and the sycamore grove, are no more. The present owner has modernized a fine slope in the bosom of the island into a formal garden; an unpleasing contrast to the natural simplicity, and insular beauty of the place. What reason he has for adopting such a plan, I shall not enquire, much less treat him with abuse for executing it to his own fancy; the want of choice might justify his having a garden on the island; but since it is now in his power to have it elsewhere, I hope it will be his pleasure, when he revisits the place, to restore the island to its native state of pastoral simplicity, and rural elegance.
The island was long the property of the Philipsons, once a potent familly in these parts; and Sir Christopher Philipson, with his familly, resided upon it in the beginning of this century.
Station Ii. The views from this delicious spot are many and charming. From the south end of the island you look over a noble extent of water, bounded in front by waves of distant mountains, that rise from the water's edge; the two ferry point form a picturesque strait, and beyond that, the Store on one side, and Rawlinson's - Nab on the other, shooting far into the lake, form a grand sinuosity, and the intermediate shores are beautifully indented by promontories, covered with wood, hanging to the eye, and skirting the bays with elegant edgings of spreading trees. Berkshire Island and Crow Holme break the line in this noble expanse of water. The eastern shore confesses much cultivation; the hills are much diversified, and strangely tumbled about. Some are laid out in grass inclosures, others cut with hedges, and fringed with trees; one is crowned with wood, and skirted with the sweetest verdure; others wave with corn; the whole is a mixture of objects that constitute the most pleasing of rural scenes. The upper grounds are wild and pastured with flocks.
Station Iii. From the north end of the island the views are more sublime, the scenes vast. The lake is here seen both ways. To the south an expanse of water spreads to the right, and left, behind a succession of promontories, with variety of shore, patched with islands, encircled by an ampitheatre of distant hills, rising in a noble stile. Turning to the north, the view is over a reach of the lake, six miles in length, and above one in breadth, interrupted with scattered islands of different figure and dress, reflected from the limpid surface of the water seen distinctly between them. The environs exhibit all the grandeur of Alpine scenes, in the conic summits of Langdale Pikes and Hill Bell; the broken ridge of Wrynose, and Kirkstone's rocky front; the overhanging cliff of Hardknot; the uniform mass of Fairfield, and Rydal Head, with the far extended mountains of Troutbeck and Kentmere, form the most magnificent ampitheatre, and grandest assemblage of mountains, dells, and chasms, that ever the fancy of Pousin suggested, or the genius of Rosa invented. The island is the centre of this amphitheatre, and in the opposite point, directly over the extremity of the lake, is Rydal Hall, sweetly seatd for the enjoyment of these scenes, and in return animates the whole. The immediate borders of the lake are adorned with villages and scattered cots; Calgarth and Rayrig grace its banks.
After enjoying these internal views from the bosom of the lake, I recommend sailing down to Rawlinson's - Nab. On the south side of it, a pretty bay opens for landing on. In the course of the voyage you should touch at the different islands in the way, where every object is varied by a change of features, in such a maner as renders them wholly new. The great island changes its appearance, and joined with the ferry points, cuts the lake in two. The house on it becomes an important object. The ferry-house, seen under the sycamore grove, has a fine effect; and the broken cliff over it, constitutes a most picturesque scene. The beauty of shore, and finest rural scenes in nature, are seen by traversing the lake; and viewing each in turn, they contrast strongly. The western side is spread with enchanting sylvan scenes; the eastern waves with all the improved glory of rural magnificent.
Station Iv. Rawlinson's - Nab, is a peninsula rock, of circular figure, swelling to a crown in the centre, covered with low wood: There are two of them, but it is from the crown of the interior Nab, you have a surprising view of two fine sheets of water that bend different ways.
The view to the south is bounded by a bold and various shore, on both sides. The hills are wooded and rough, but spotted in parts with small inclosures, and their tops burst into rocks of various shapes.
The view to the north is more beautiful: An extent of three miles of the lake, broke into by the bold promontory, the Stores, and above that Berkshire Island is charmingly placed. Bannerig and Orrest Head rising from the shore in magnificent slopes, are seen from hence to great advantage. This beautiful scene is well contrasted from the opposite side, by a ridge of hanging woods, spread over wild romantic grounds, the shoot abruptly into bold and spirited projections.
Return to Bowness, and conclude by taking Mr. Young's general view of the lake, where, at one glance, you command all its striking beauties. No station can better answer the purpose, and it would be injustice done to the discoverer to deviate one tittle from his description.
Station V." Thus having viewed the most pleasing objects from these points, let me next conduct you to a spot, where at one glance you command them all in fresh situations, and all assuming a new appearance. For this purpose you return to the village, and taking the by-road to the turnpike, mount the hill without turning your head,( if I was your guide I would conduct you behind a small hill, that you might come at once upon the view), till you almost gain the top, when you will be struck with astonishment at the prospect spread at your feet, which if not the most superlative view that nature can exhibit, she is more fertile in beauties than the reach of my imagination will allow me to conceive. It would be a mere vanity to attempt to describe a scene which beggars all description; but that you may have some faint idea of the outlines of this wonderful picture, I will just give the particulars of which it consists.
 Six month's Tour, vol. 3d, page 184.
" The point on which you stand is the side of a large ridge of hills that form the eastern boundary of the lake, and that situation high enough to look down upon all the objects: A circumstances of great importance, which painting cannot imitate. In landscapes you are either on a level with the objects, or look up to them; the painter cannot give the declivity at your feet, which lessens the objects as much in the perpendicular line, as in the horizontal one. You look down upon a noble winding valley of about twelve miles long, every where inclosed with grounds, which rise in a very bold and various manner; in some places bulging into mountains, abrupt, wild, and uncultivated; in others breaking into rocks, craggy, pointed, and irregular; here rising into hills covered with the noblest woods, presenting a gloomy browness of shade, almost from the clouds, to the reflection of the trees in the limped water of the lake they so beautifully skirt: There waving in glorious slopes of cultivated inclosures, adorned in the sweetest manner with every object that can give variety to art, or elegance to nature; trees, woods, villages, houses, farms scattered with picturesque confusion, and waving to the eye in the most romantic landscapes that nature can exhibit.
" This valley, so beautifully inclosed, is floated by the lake, which spreads forth to the right and left, in one vast, but irregular expanse of transparent water; a more noble object can hardly be imagined. Its immediate shore is traced in every variety of line that fancy can imagine; sometimes contracting the lake into the appearance of a noble winding river; at others retiring from it and opening into large bays, as if for navies to anchor in; promontories spread with woods, or scattered with trees and inclosures, projecting into the water in the most picturesque stile maginable; rocky points breaking the shore, and rearing their bold heads above the water; in a word, a variety that amazes the beholder.
" But what finishes the scene with an elegance too delicious to be imagined, is, this beautiful sheet of water being dotted with no less then ten islands, distinctly comprehended by the eye; all of the most bewitching beauty. The large one presents a waving various lines, which rises from the water in the most picturesque inequalities of surface: High land in one place, low in another, clumps of tree in this spot, scattered ones in that, adorned by a farm house on the water's edge, and backed with a little wood, vying in simple elegance with Baromean palaces: Some of the smaller isles rising from the lake, like little hills of wood; some only scattered with trees, and others of grass of the finest verdure; a more beautiful variety is no where to be seen.
" Strain your imagination to command the idea of so noble an expanse of water, thus gloriously environed, spotted with islands more beautiful than would have issued from the happiest painter. Picture the mountains rearing their majestic heads with native sublimity; the vast rocks boldly projecting their terrible craggy points; and in the path of beauty, the variegated inclosures of the most charming verdure, hanging to the eye in every picturesque form that can grace landscape, with the most exquisite touches of La Belle Nature. If you raise your fancy to something infinitely beyond this assemblage of rural elegances, you may have a faint notion of the unexampled beauties of this ravishing landscape."
If the sun shines, this view of Mr. Young's can only be enjoyed early in the morning: As that on the opposite shore, behind the two oak trees is an afternoon prospect, from a parity of circumstance; the sun in both places illuminating the objects on the opposite sides of the lake, at different times of the day. These are the finest stations on the lake for pleasing the eye, but are by much too elevated for the purpose of the artist, who will find the picturesque points on the great island well suited to his intention of morning and evening landscape, having command of fore-ground, the objects well ascertained, grouped and disposed in the in the finest order of nature. A picture of the north end of the lake taken from this island, will far exceed the fanciful production of the happiest pencil. This may be easily verified by the use of the convex reflecting glass.
Rawlinson's - Nab is another picturesque point, either for the eye, or the pencil. You are there advanced a great way into the lake, in the midst of the finest scenes, with a charming fore-ground at your feet.
From the low Cat Crag, which is a little to the south of the Nab, you have a view of the south end of the lake, as far north as the great island. The ferry points, the Stores, the Nab, the lesser islands, are distinctly viewed in fine order. Mr. English's house on the island is a fine object; and the beauties of the western shore to the south of the Crag, are only seen from thence.
To sum up the peculiar beauties of Windermere, the great variety of landscape, and enchanting views, that this chief of lakes exhibits, after what Mr. Young has said of it, is unnecessary. He allowed himself time to examine this, and the lakes in Cumberland, and he describes each of them with much taste and judgement, and it is evident that he gives the preference to Windermere. Yet this ought not to prejudice the minds of those who have the tour to make, against such as prefer Derwent Lake, or Ulles Water. The stile are all different, and the sensations excited thereby will also be different; and the idea that gives pleasure or pain in the highest degree will be the rule of comparative judgement. It perhaps will be allowed by all, that the greatest variety of fine landscape is found here.
These stations will furnish much amusement to those who visit them, and others will present themselves occasionally; and whoever is delighted with water expeditions, and entertainments, as rowing, sailing, fishing,& c, will meet with full employment here for a few days.
The fish of this lake are char, trout, perch, pike, and eel: Of the char there are two varieties, the case char, and the gelt char; the latter is a fish that did not spawn the last season, and is on that account more delicious.
The greatest depth of the lake is opposite to Ecclesrig Crag, 222 feet; the fall from Newby Bridge, where the current becomes visible, to Low Wood, the high water mark, distant two miles, is 105 feet; the bottom of the lake is therefore 117 feet below high water mark.
In Bowness nothing so remarkable as some remains of painted glass in the east window of the church, that was brought from the abbey of Furness.
From Bowness to Ambleside, six miles, along the side of the lake. On the top of an eminence, a little behind Rayrig, there is a fine view of the northern extremity of the lake. As you proceed along the banks, every step has importance; the prospect becomes more and more august, exhibiting much variety of Appenine grandeur. Langdale Pikes, that guard the pass into Borrowdale, on this side of the Yoak, and spiral Hill Bell, the overhanging crags of lofty Rainsbarrow, the broken ridge of Redscrees, Fairfield, and Scrubby Crag, on whose precipitous front the eagle builds his nest, secure from the envious shepherds of the vale; with a chaos of nameless mountains, are all in sight, and seem to move as you advance, and shew themselves in turns.
Just at the head of Windermere, and a little short of Ambleside, turn down a byroad to the left, and see the vestige of a Roman station; it lies in the meadow on a level with the lake, and as supposed, was called the Dictis, where a part of the cohort Nerviorum Dictentium was stationed. It is placed near the meetings of all the roads from Penrith, Keswick, Ravenglass, Furness, and Kendal, which it commanded, and was accessible only on one side.
Ambleside.

Here nothing at present is found of all that Camden mentions of this place; so swift is time in destroying the last remains of ancient magnificence. Roman coins and arms have been frequently found here; and in forming the turnpike road through Rydal, an urn was lately taken up, which contained ashes, and other Roman remains, and serves to prove the tract of the ancient road to have laid that way.
In mountainous countries, cascades, water-fells, and cataracts are frequent, but are only seen in high beauty when in full torrent, and that is in wet weather, or soon after it. Above Ambleside about a mile, there is a cascade, that, though the season should be dry, merits a visit on account of its singular beauty, and distinguished features, from others you will see in the course of the tour. The stream here, though the water be low, is much divided, and broken by a variety in one torrent, it is precipitated with a horrid rushing noise into a dark gulph, unfathomable to the eye; and after rising in foam, is dashed with a thundering noise headlong down a steep craggy channel, till it join the Rothay below Ambleside. The parts of this cataract are noble; the deep dark hue of the rocks in the gloomy bosom of a narrow glen, just visible by day, and shewn by contrast of the fretted, foaming water, heightned by a mixture of green from the trees that wave over the fall, and the shrubs and bushes that hang on the rocks that divide the stream, and render this scene highly picturesque. Hutchinson is the first that mentions this surprising object, and his station is well chose, at the old oak that leans over the precipice; but there is a lower station that will better suit such as do not chuse to overlook a trembling precipice.
From Ambleside to Keswick, eighteen miles of excellent mountain road, furnishes much amusement to the traveller. If the season be rainy, or immediately after rain, all the possible variety of cascade, cataract, and water-falls, are seen in this ride. Some precepitating themselves from immense heights, others leaping and bounding from rock to rock in foaming torrents, hurling huge fragments to the vale, that make the mountains tremble to their fall. The hollow noise swells and dies upon the ear by turns. The scenes are astonishing, the succession of them matchless. At Rydal Hall are two cascades worthy of notice: One is a little above the house, to which Sir Michael Le Fleming has made a convenient path, that brings you upon it all at once, a might torrent tumbling headlong from an immense height of rock, uninterrupted into the rocky bason below, shaking the mountain under you with its fall, and the air above with the rebound: It is a surprising scene. This gentleman's example in opening a road to the fall, recommends itself strongly in this country, that abounds with so many noble objects, that travellers of the least taste would visit with pleasure, could they do it with safety.
The other cascade is a small fall of water seen through the window of the summer house, in Sir Michael's orchard, The first who brought this sweet scene to light, is the elegant and learned editor of Mr. Gray's letters. As no one describes with such propriety as Mr. Mason, the reader shall have his account of this masterpiece of nature. " Here nature has performed every thing in little that she usually in her larger scale; and on that account, like the miniature painter, seems to have finished every part of it in a studied manner. Not a little fragment of a rock thrown into the bason, not a single stem of brush-wood that starts from its craggy sides, but has a picturesque meaning; and the little central current dashing down a cleft of the darkest coloured stone, produces an effect of light and shadow beautiful beyond description. This little theatrical scene might be painted as large as the original, on a canvas not bigger than those usually dropped in the opera-house."
Rydal Hall has a grand situation, at the feet of studendous mountains, opening to the south at the enterance of the vale, over a noble fore-ground, and commands a charming view of the Windermere. The River Rothay winds through the vale, amidst lofty rocks and hanging woods, to join the lake. The road serpentizes upwards round a bulging rock, fringed with trees, and brings you soon in sight of Rydal Water, a lake about one mile in length, spotted with little isles, which communicates, by a narrow channel, with Grasmere Lake. The River Rothay is their common outlet.
Mount Grasmere hill, and from the top, have a view of as sweet a scene as travelled eye ever beheld. Mr. Gray's description of this peaceful happy vale, will raise a wish in every reader to see so primAEeval a place.
" The bosom of the mountains, spreading here into a broad bason, discover in the midst of Grasmere Water; its margin is hollowed into small bays, with eminences; some of rock, some of soft turf, that half conceal, and vary the figure of the little lake the command: From the shore, a low promontory pushes itself far into the water, and on it stands a white village, with a parish church rising in the midst of it: Hanging inclosures, corn fields, and meadows, green as emerald, with their trees, and hedges, and cattle, fill up the whole space from the edge of the water: And just opposite to you is a large farm house, at the bottom of a steep smooth lawn, embosomed in old woods, which climb half - way up the mountains sides, and discover above a broken line of crags that crown the scene. Not a single red tile, nor flaring gentleman's house, or garden-wall, break in upon the repose of this little unsuspected paradise; but all is peace, rusticity, and happy poverty, in its neatest, most becoming attire."
Mr. Gray's description is taken from the road descending from Dunmail Raise; but the more advantagous station, to view this romantic vale from, is on the western side. Proceed from Ambleside by Clapersgate, along the banks of the River Bratha, and at Scalewith Bridge ascend a steep hill that leads to Grasmere, and a little behind its summit you come in sight of the valley and lake, lying in the sweetest order. The island is near the centre, unless the water be very low; the church stands at a small distance from the lake, on the side of the Rothey, its principal feeder. On each hand spreads the cultivated tract up the steep sides of surrounding mountains, guarded by Steelfell, and Seat Sandby, that advancing towards each other, close the view at Dunmail Raise. The broken head of Holme Crag has a fine effect, seen from this point. Descend the hill, leave the church on the right hand, and presently arrive at the great road to Ambleside or Keswick; here you have Mr. Gray's view, and will see the difference. Mr. Gray has omitted the island in his description, which is a principal in this sweet scene.
This vale of peace is about four miles in circumference, and guarded at the upper end by Holme Crag, a broken pyramidal mountain, that exhibits an immense mass of Antideluvian ruins. After this road ascends Dunmail Raise, where lies the historical stones that perpetuate the name and fall of the last King of Cumberland, defeated there by the Saxon monarch Edmund, who put out the eyes of his two sons, and for confederating with Leolin, King of Wales, against him, he first wanted his kingdom, and then gave it to Malcolm, King of Scots, who held it in fee of Edmund , A.D. 944, or 945. The stones are a heap that have the appearance of a karned or barrow; the wall that divides the country crosses them at right angles, which proves their priority of time there.
From Dunmail Raise, the road is an easy descent of nine miles to Keswick, except Castle Rigg that is somewhat quick. Leaving the vale of Grasmere behind, you soon come in sight of Leathes Water, called also Wythburn and Thirlmeer. It begins at the foot of Helvellyn, and skirts its base for the space of four miles, encreased by a variety of pastoral torrents, that pour down the mountains sides their silver streams, which warbling join the lake. The range of mountains on the right are tremendously great, Helvellyn and Catchidecam, are the chief; and according to the Wythburn shepherds, much higher than Skiddaw. This is certain, that these mountains retain snow many weeks after Skiddaw has lost his winter covering; but that may be owing to the steepness of Skiddaw's northern side, and the shivery surface, that attracts more forcibly the solar rays, than the verdant front of Helvellyn, and so precipitates in falanches the winter's load at once. A thousand huge rocks hang on Helvellyn brow, all once in motion, and ready to start anew: Many have already reached the lack, and are at rest. The road sweeps through them along the naked margin of the lake. The opposite shore is beautified with variety of crown toped rocks, some wooded, others not, rising immediately from the water; some rent and hanging forward to the water; all set of with a background of verdant mountains, rising in the noblest stile; the whole reflected from the soft bosom of the lake. Its singular beauty is being almost intersected in the middle by two peninsulas, that are joined by a bridge, in a taste suitable to the genius of the place, which serves for an easy communication among the shepherds that dwell on the opposite banks.
At the sixth mile-post, from the top of an eminence, on the left, there is a good general view of the lake and vale; but the most picturesque point is from an eminence behind Dalehead house. The lake terminates sweetly with a pyramidal rock wooded to the top, and opposite to it, a silver grey rock, hanging over its base towards the lake, has a fine effect.
The road after this leads through the narrow green vale of Agberthwaite, divided into small inclosures, peopled with a few cots, and notably terminated by the romantic castle-like rock of St. John. Below, the vale contracts into a deep craggy dell, through which Leathes Water rolls itself till it joins the Greta at New Bridge, under the foot of Threlkeld Fell, a gloomy mountain of dark dun rocks, that shuts up the view of the sweet spreading vale of St. John.
The road winds to the left along Thwaite Bridge, and ascends Naddle Fell, by Cawseyway Foot, to Castle Rigg. At the turn of the hill, and within two miles of Keswick, you come at once in sight of the glorious vale, with all its noble environs, and wonderfully inchanting scenes, which when Mr. Grey beheld, had almost determined him to return to Keswick, and repeat his tour.
" I left Keswick, says he, and took the Ambleside road, in a gloomy morning, and about two miles from the town, mounted an eminence, called Castle Rigg, and the sun breaking out, discovered the most enchanting view, I have yet seen, of the whole valley behind me, the two lakes, the rivers, the mountains, all in their glory; so that I had almost a mind to have gone back again." This is certainly a most ravishing morning view of the bird's - eye kind; a circuit of twenty miles; two lakes, Derwent, and Bassenthwaite, the river serpentizing between; the town of Keswick, and church of Crosthwaite, in the centre points; an extensive fertile plain; all the surrounding mountains that inclose this delicious spot, seen in all their greatness, astonish, surprise, and delight.
The druid temple, mentioned by Hutchinson, and delineated in Pennant's tour, lies about half a mile to the right; but will be more conveniently seen from the Penrith road. Descend to
Keswick.

This small neat town is at present renowned for nothing so much as the lake it stands near, and is sometimes called by its name, the lake of Keswick, but more properly the lake of Derwent; and I am inclined to think, and hope to make it appear, that the ancient name of Keswick, is the Derwent Town, or the town of Derwent Water. But first of the lake itself.
The whole extent of the lake is about three miles, from north to south; the form is irregular; its greatest breadth exceeds not a mile and a half. The course of viewing this fairy enchanting lake, is in the boat, and from the banks. Mr. Gray viewed it from the banks only; and Mr. Mason, after trying both, prefers Mr. Gray's choice; and where the pleasure of rowing and sailing are out of the question; it will in general be found the best, on account of the near ground, which the boat does not furnish; yet every dimension of the lake appears more extended from its bosom, than from its banks, or other elevated station. I shall therefore point out the favourite stations round the lake, that have often been verified.
Station I. Cockshut Hill is remarkable for a general view, it is covered with a motly mixture of young wood, has an easy ascent to the top, and from it the lake appears in great beauty. On the floor of a spacious ampitheatre, of the most picturesque mountains imaginable, an elegant sheet of water is spread out before you, shining like a mirror, and transparent as chrystal; variegated with islands, that rise in the most pleasing forms above the watery plane, dressed in wood, or clothed with softest verdure, the water shining round them. The effects all around are amazingly great; but no words can describe the surprising pleasure of this scene, in a fine day, when the sun plays upon the bosom of the lake, and the surrounding mountains are illuminated by his refulgent rays, and their rocky broken summits reflected reflected inverted by the chrystal surface of the water.
Station Ii. The next celebrated station, is at a small distance. Crow Park, till of late a grove of oaks of immemorial growth, whose fall the bard of Lowes Water, bemoans in humble plaintive numbers thus,
-- That ancient wood, where beasts did safely rest, And where the crow long time had built her nest, Now falls, a destined prey, to savage hands, Being doomed, alas! to visit distant lands. 
Ah! what avails thy boasted strenth at last? That braved the rage of many furious blast; When now thy body's spent with many a wound, Loud groans its last, and thunders on the ground, Whilst hills, and dales, and woods, and rocks resound.
This now shadeless pasture, is a gentle eminence not too high, on the very margin of the lake, which it commands in all its extent, and looks full into the craggy pass of Borrowdale. Of this station Mr. Gray speaks," October 4th, I walked to Crow Park, now a rough pasture, once a glade of ancient oaks, whose large roots still remain in the ground, but nothing has sprung from them. If one single tree had remained this would have been an unparalleled spot; and Smith judged right when he took his print of the lake from hence, for it is a gentle eminence, not too high, on the very margin of the water, and commands it from end to end, looking full into the gorge of Borrowdale, I prefer it even to Cockshut Hill, which lies beside it, and to which I walked in the afternoon; it is covered with young trees, both sown and planted, oak, spruce, scotch fir,& c, all of which thrive wonderfully. There is an easy ascent to the top, and the view far preferable to that on Castle Hill, because this is lower and nearer the lake; for I find all points that are much elevated, spoil the beauty of the valley, and make its parts, which are not large, look poor and diminutive."
Station Iii. A third station, on this side, will be found by keeping along the line of shore, till Stable Hills be on the right, and Wallow Crag directly over you on the left; then without the gate, on the edge of the common, observe two huge fragments of ferruginous coloured rock, pitched into the side of the mountain in their descent. Here all that is great and pleasing on the lake, all that is grand and sublime in the environs, lie in a beautiful order, and natural disposition. Looking down upon the lake, the four large islands appear distinctly over the peninsula of Stable Hills; the Lord's Island richly dressed in wood; a little to the left, Vicar's Isle rises in a beautiful form, and a circular isle. Ramps Holme, is catched in the line betwixt that and St. Herbert's Island, which traverses the lake in an oblique direction, and has a fine effect. These are the four most considerable islands on the lake. Under Foe Park, a round hill completely clothed in wood, two small isles interrupt the line of shore, and charm the eye in the passage from the Vicar's Isle to Ramps Holme. Another islet above St. Herbert's Island, has a similar effect. All idea of river or outlet is here excluded; but over a neck of undulated land, finely scattered with trees, distant water is just seen behind the Lord's Island. The white church of Crosthwaite is seen under Skiddaw towering to the sky, the strongest possible back-ground. The opposite shore is bounded by a range of hills, down to the entrance of Newland vale, where Cawsey Pike and Thornthwaite rise in Alpine pride, outdone only by their supreme lord, Skiddaw. Their skirts descend in gentle slopes, and end in cultivated grounds. The whole of the western coast is beautiful beyond what words can express, and the north end exhibits what is most gentle and pleasing in landscape. The southern extremity of the lake, is a violent contrast to all this: Falcon Crag, an immense rock, hangs over your head, and upwards a forest of broken pointed rocks in a semicircular sweep, towering inward, form the most horrid ampitheatre that ever eye beheld, in all the wild forms of convulsed nature. The immediate border of the lake, is a sweet variegated shore of meadow and pasture, up to the foot of the rocks. Over a border of hedge-row trees, Lowdore House is seen under Hallow Stone Crag, a sloping rock whose back is covered with soft vegetation; beyond that, the awful craggy rocks that conceal the pass into Borrowdale, and at their feet a stripe of verdant meadows, through which the Derwent serpentizes to the lake in silence.
The road is along Barrowside, on the margin of the lake, open and narrow, yet safe. It soon enters a glade, through which the lake is sweetly seen by turns. In approaching the ruins of Gowdar Crag, which hangs towering forward, the mind recoils at the sight of huge fragments of crags, piled up on both sides, through a thicket of rocks and wood; but there is nothing of the danger remaining that Mr. Gray apprehended here; the road being carefully kep open. Proceed by the bridge of one arch over Park Gill, and another over Barrow Beck; here Gowdar Crag presents itself in all its terrible majesty of rock, trimmed with trees that hang from its numerous fissures. Above this, a towering grey rock rises majestically rude, and near it Shuttenoer, a spiral rock, not less in height, and hanging more forward over its base. Betwixt an awful chasm is formed, through which the waters of Watenlath are hurled; this is the niagra of the lake, the renowned cataract of Lowdore. To see this, ascend to an opening in the grove, directly above the mill. It is the misfortune of this celebrated water-fall, to fail entirely in a dry season. The wonderful scenes continue to the gorge of Borrowdale, and higher; Castle Crag, in the centre of the ampitheatre, threatens to block up the pass it once defended. The village of Grange is under it, celebrated as well for its hospitality to Mr. Gray, as for its sweet romantic site; and to affirm that all Mr. Gray says of the young farmer at Grange, is strictly applicable to the inhabitants of these mountainous regions in general, is but common justice done to the memory of repeated favours.
 Antiquities of Furness
On the summit of Castle Crag, are the remains of a fort; and much freestone, both red and white, has been quarried out of the ruins. Vessels, large and small, are cut in the rock. A lead pan with an iron bow was lately taken up; last year, two masses of smelted iron were found in the ruins, and probably were from the bloomery at the foot of the Stake in Borrowdale. It is probably of Romand original, to guard the pass, and secure the treasure they were acquainted with, contained in the bosom of these mountains. The Saxons, and after them the Furness monks, maintained this fort for the same purpose. All Borrowdale, and the rectory of Crosthwaite, were given to the monks of Furness, probably by one of the Derwent family, and Adam De Derwent Water, gave them free ingress, and egress through all his lands. The Grange was the place where they laid up their grain and tithe, and also the salt they made at the salt-spring, where are still some vestiges of the works remaining below Grange.
Station Iv. From the top of Castle Rock or crag, in Borrowdale, there is a most astonishing view of the lake and vale of Keswick, spread out to the north in the most picturesque manner. From the pass of Borrowdale, every bend of the river, till it joins the lake, is distinctly seen; the lake itself, spotted with islands; the most extraordinary line of shore, varied with all the surprising accompanyments of rocks and woods; the village of Grange at the foot of the rock, and the white houses of Keswick, with Crosthwaite church at the lower end of the lake; behind these much cultivation, with a beautiful mixture of villages, houses, cots, and farms, round the skirts of Skiddaw, which rises in the grandest manner, from a verdant base, and closes this scene in the noblest stile of nature's true sublime. The area of the castellum from east to west, is about 70 yards; from south to north about 40 yards. From the summit of this rock the views are so singularly great and pleasing, that they ought never to be omitted. The ascent is by one of the narrow paths cut in the side of the mountain, for the descent of the slate, that is quarried on its top. These quarries will, in a short time, sink it any feet below its present height, and destroy the last vestige of its ancient importance.
The view to the north is already described; all the vale of Keswick, the lake, its environs, all displayed in the finest order, completely inclosed with mountains, that swell with distance, and consitute an excellent picture, pleasing and sublime.
To the south, the view is in Borrowdale. The river is seen winding from the lake upward, through the rugged pass, to where it divides and embraces a triangular vale, completely cut into inclosures of meadow, enamelled with softest verdure, and fields waving with fruitful crops, the ample return to the laudable toil of the peaceful inhabitants. This truly secreted spot is completely surrounded by the most horrid, romantic mountains in this region of wonders; and whoever omits this Coup D' Oeile, hath seen nothing equal to it amongst the marvelous scenes.
The views here taken in the glass, in sun shine, are amazingly fine.
This picture is reversed from the summit of Lat Rigg.
Mr. Gray was so much intimidated with the accounts of Borrowdale, that he proceeded no further then Grange; but no such difficulties are now to met with; the road into Borrowdale is improved since his time, at least as far as is necessary for any one to proceed to see what is curious. The road serpentizes through the pass above Grange, and, though upon the edge of a precipice that hangs over the river, it is safe by day. This river brings no mixture of mud from the mountains of naked rock, and runs in a channel of slate and granite, clear as crystal. The water of all the lakes in these parts is clear, but the Derwent only is pellucid; the smallest pebble is seen at any depth as in the open air.
The rocky scenes in Borrowdale are most fantastic, the entrance rugged. One rock elbows out, and turns the road directly against another. Bowdar Stone, on the right, in the very pass, a mountain of itself, the road winds round its base. Here rock riots over rock, and mountain intersecting mountain, form one grand semicircular sweep of broken pointed crags, and rocky mountains, nodding to each other in gloomy majesty; woods rest on their steep sides, trees grow from rocks, and rocks appear like trees. Here the Derwent, rapid as the Rhone, rolls his crystal streams through all the labyrinth of embattled rocks. The scenes here are so sublimely terrible, the assemblage of magnificent objects so stupendously great, and the arrangement so extraordinary, as must excite the most sensible feelings of wonder, astonishment, and surprise, and at once impress the mind with reverential awe and admiration.
The most gigantic mountains that form the outline of this tremendous landscape, and inclose Borrowdale, are Eagle Crag, Glaramara, Bull Crag, and Serjeant Crag. On the front of the first, the bird of Jove has his annual nest, which the dalesmen are careful to rob, not without hazard to the assailant, who is let down from the summit of this dreadful rock by a rope of twenty fathoms, or more, and is obliged to descend himself from the attacks of the parent birds in the descent. The devastation made on the fold, in the breeding season, by one eyrie, is computed at a lamb a day, besides the carnage made on the ferAE natur. Glaramara is a mountain of perpendicular naked rock, immense in height, and much broken; it appears in the western canton, and outline of the picture. Bull Crag, and Serjeant Crag are in the centre; their rugged sides concealed with hanging woods.
The road continues good to Rosthwaite, the first village in this romantic region. Here the roads divide; that on the right leads to the wad-mines, and to Ravenglass, that on the left to Hawkshead. Amidst these tremendous scenes of rocks and mountains, there is a peculiar circumstance of consolation to the traveller, that distinguishes this from other mountainous tracts, where the hills are divided by bogs and mosses, through which it is often difficult to pick the way, which is, that the mosses here, where any be, are on the tops of the mountains, and the passage over or round them is never very difficult. The inhabitants of the dales are served with fewel from the summits of the mountains, and the manner of procuring it is very singular: A man carries on his back a sledge to the top of the mountain, and conducts it down the most awful descents, placing himself before it to prevent its running amain. A narrow furrow is cut in the mountain's side which serves for a road to conduct the sledge, and pitch the conductors heel in. A sledge holds one half of what a horse can draw.
The mountains here are separated by wooded glens, verdant dells, and fertile vales, which form a pleasing contrast, and relieve the imagination with delightful ideas, that the inhabitants of these rude regions, are far removed from the want of necessaries of life for themselves, their herds and flocks, during the exclusion months from the rest of the community, by winter snows. About Rosthwaite, in the centre of the dale, fields wave with crops, and meadows are enamelled with flowery grass; the little delightful Eden is marked with every degree of industry by the laborious inhabitants, who partake nothing of the ferocity of the country they live in; for they are hospitable, civil, and communicative, and readily and chearfully give assistance to strangers who visit their realms. On missing the tract I was directed to observe, I have been surprised by the dalelander, from the top of a rock, waving me back and offering me a safe conduct through ll the difficult parts, who blushed at the offer of a reward. Such is the power of virtue on the minds of those that are least acquainted with society.
The shepherds only are conversant in the traditional annals of the mountains, and with all the secrets of the mysterious reign of chaos, and old night; and they only can give proper information; for others who live within the shadow of these mountains, are ignorant of their names.
Return to Keswick by Grange, and if the sun shines in the evening, the display of the rock on the opposite shore, from Castle Rock to Wallow Crag, in such high colouring, is amazingly grand. The parts are the same as in the morning ride, the dispositions entirely new. The crystal surface of the lake, reflecting the waving woods and rocks, backed by the finest arrangement of lofty mountains, intersectinf and rising above each other in great variety of forms, are scenes not to be equalled elsewhere. The whole ride down the western side is pleasant; the road is but indifferent.
Whoever chuses an Alpine ride, of a very extraordinary nature, may return through Borrowdale to Ambleside, or Hawkshead: A guide will be necessary from Rosthwaite over the Stake, a mountain so called, to Langdale chapel. The ride is the wildest that an be imagined, for the space of eight miles. Above the cultivated tract the dale narrows, but the skirts of the mountains are covered with sweetest verdure, and have once waved with aged wood; many large roots still remain, with some scattered trees. Just where the road begins to ascend the steep mountain, called the Stake of Borrowdale, are said to be the remains of a bloomery, close by the water-fall on the left; but no tradition relates at what time it was last worked. This I could never verify from any visible remains. The mineral was found in the mountains, and the wood used in smelting had covered their steep sides. The masses of iron found on Castle Crag, were probably smelted here. Cataracts and water-falls abound on all sides; a succession of water-falls will meet you in the ascent up the Stake, and others will accompany you down the most dreadful descent into Langdale: The scenes on the Borrowdale side are in part sylvan and pastoral; on the side of Langdale entirely rocky. The Stake is a miniature of a very bad Alpine road across a mountain just not perpendicular, and about five miles over. The road makes many traverses so close that at every flexure it seems almost to return into itself, and such as are advancing in different traverses, seem to go different ways, or to meet each other. In descending the Stake on the Langdale side, a cataract accompanies you on the left, with all the horrors of a precipice. Langdale Pike, called Pike A Stickle, and Steel Pike, is an inaccessible pyramidal rock, that commands the whole. Here nature seems to have discharged all the useless load of matter and rock, when form was impressed on chaos. Pavey Ark is a hanging rock, 600 feet in height, and under it Stickle Tarn, a large bason of water, formed in the bosom of the rock, that pours down in a cataract at Mill Beck; below this Whitegill Crag opens to the centre a dreadful yawning fissure. Below Langdale chapel, the vale becomes more pleasing, the road good to Ambleside or Hawkshead, by Skelwith Bridge.
Mr. Gray was much pleased with an evening view under Crow Park. --" In the evening I walked alone down to the lake, by the side of Crow Park, after sun-set, and saw the solemn colouring of the night draw on, the last gleam of sun-shine fading away on the hill tops, the deep serene of the waters, and the long shadows of the mountains thrown across them, till they nearly touched the hithermost shore. At a distance were heard the murmurs of many water-falls not audible in the day time; I wished for the moon, but she was dark to me and silent,
Hid in her vacant interlunar cave."
Station V. This view is seen to much greater advantage from the side of Swinside, a little before sunset, where both the lakes are in full view, with the whole extent of rocky shore, on the upper lake, and flexures of the lower lake, with the whole extent of the vale, when the last beams of the sun rest on the purple summit of Skiddaw, and the deep shade of Wythop's wooded brows is stretched over the lake, the effect is amazingly great.
Station Vi. From Swinside, continue the walk by Foe Park. This is a sweet evening walk, and had the sun shone out, Mr. Gray would have perceived his mistake in being here in the morning. " October 5th, I walked through the meadows and corn fields to the Derwent, and crossing it, went up How Hill, it looks along Bassenthwaite Water, and sees at the same time the course of the river, and part of the upper lake, with a full view of Skiddaw: Then I took my way through Portingscale village to the park( Foe Park), a hill so called, covered entirely with wood; it is all a mass of crumbling slate; passed round its foot between the trees and the edge of the water, and came to a peninsula, that juts out into the lake, and looks along it both ways; in front rises Wallow Crag, and Castle Hill, the town, the road to Penrith, Skiddaw, and Saddle Back. -- After dinner walked up Penrith, road,& c."
Station Vii. Another select station for a morning view is on Lat Rigg, a soft green hill, that interposes between the town and Skiddaw. The ascent is by Monks Hall, leaving Ormathwaite on the left; and following the mountain road about due east, till you approach the gate in the stone-wall inclosure; then slant the hill to the right, looking towards Keswick, till you gain the brow of the hill, which exhibits a fine terras of verdant turf, smooth as velvet. Below you rolls the Greeta, and in its course, visits the town before it joins the Derwent, where it issues from the lake, and then their united streams are seen meandering through the vale, till they are met by the floods of Bassenthwaite, under the verdant skirts of Wythop brows.
The prospect to the south is the reverse of that from Castle Crag. The view is full into the rocky jaws of Borrowdale, through which the Derwent is seen pouring his crystal stream, that winding through some verdant meadows which skirt the rocky coast, joins the lake at Lowdore. The lake itself is seen in its full extent, embracing on all sides variety of shore, its bosom spotted with diversity of islands. The Castle Crag in Borrowdale, stands first of all the forest of embattled rocks, whose forked heads reared to the sky, shine in the sun like spears of burnished steel; and in the rear Langdale Pike, advancing to the clouds his cone-like head, overlooks them all. What charms the eye in wandering over the vale, is that not one streight line offends; the roads all serpentize round the mountains, and the hedges wave with the inclosures. All are thrown into some path of beauty, or line of nature.
To describe every picturesque view, that this region of landscape presents would be endless labour; and did language furnish expression to convey ideas of the innumerable changes, in the many grand constituent objects in these magnificent scenes, the imagination would be fatigued with the detail, and description weakened by redundancy. It is more pleasing to speculative curiosity to play upon, what it wishes not to be informed of, the difference among such scenes as approach the nearest in likeness, and the agreement between such as appear most discordant; this is the sport of fancy, or the result of taste and judgement, from self-information, and has the greatest effect on the mind. The province of the Guide is to point out the station, and leave to the company the enjoyment of reflection, and pleasures of the imagination.
Return to the gate, and enter the inclosure; turn as soon as you can to the right, having the wall at some distance, till you arrive at the brink of a green precipice; there you will be entertained with the noise of the Greeta, roaring through a craggy channel with rapid course, that in the run of two miles exhibits an uncommon appearence, forming twelve or more of the finest bends and serpentine curves that ever fancy pencilled. The point for viewing this uncommon scene, is directly over the Alpine bridge, which hangs gracefully over the river. The town of Keswick appears no where to greater advantage than from this station. Helvellyn, in front, overlooks a vast range of varied hills, whose rocky sides are rent with many fissures, the paths of so many roaring rills and cataracts, that echo through the vales, and swell the general torment. To the east Cros Fell is discerned, like a cloud of blue mist, hanging over the horizon. In the middle space Mell Fell, a green pyramidal hill, is a singular figure. The eye wandering over Castle Rigg, will discover the druid-temple on the southern side of the Penrith road. Return to the path that leads down the ridge of the hill to the east; arrive at a gate that opens into a cross road; descend to the right, along the precipitous bank of a brawling brook, Glenderaterra Beck, that is heard tumbling from the mountain, concealed by woods that hang on the steep banks; in the course of the descent, remark Threskield Pike, browned with storms, and rent by a dreadful wedge-like rock, that tends to the centre. There are many pastoral cots and rural seats, scattered round the cultivated skirts of the mountains of Skiddaw, and Saddle Back, on this side sweetly placed and picturesque. The northern side is less hospitable, being more precipitous, and much concealed in shade. From the bridge the road leads to Threskield, and falls into the Penrith road four miles from Keswick. The last brook Glenderaterra, divides Skiddaw from Saddle Back, called here Threskield Fell. From the front of Mr. Wren's house, the eye will be delighted with the vale of St. John, sweetly spread out in rural beauty between two ridges of hills; Lothwaite and Naddle Fells, which in appearance lock just behind the Castle Rocks, these have the shew of magnificent ruins, in the centre point of view. A river is seen on both sides of the vale, lengthening its course in meanders, till it meets Threskield Water or Glenderamackin Beck at New Bridge, where it takes the name of Greeta. This picture is improved at the brow of the hill, on the western side of the house. Here the Greeta is seen from the bridge, running under the hill where you stand, and on the right, comes forth in a fine stream in a deep channel, between steep wooded banks. In a field on the left, near the second mile-post, stands conspicuous the wide circus of rude stones, the awful remains of the barbarous superstition of ancient times. Mr. Pennant has an excellent drawing of these druidical remains.
Station Viii. Another station remains, and which ought to be an evening one, in the vicarage garden. Mr. Gray took it in his glass from the horsing-stone, and speaks of it thus:
" From hence I got to the parsonage a little before sun-set and, saw in my glass a picture, that if I could transmit to you and fix in all the softness of its living colours, would fairly sell for a thousand pounds. This is the sweetest scene I can yet discover in point of pastoral beauty; the rest are in a sublimer stile."
The leading parts of this picture are, over a rich cultivated fore-ground, the town of Keswick seen under a hill, divided by grass inclosures, its summit crowned with wood; more to the east, Castle Rigg sweetly laid out, and over it sweeps in curves the road to Ambleside; behind that, the range of vast mountains descending from Helvellyn. On the western side, the chaos of mountains heaped on mountains, that secrete the vale of Newland; over these Cawset Pike presides. Leaving these the eye meets a well wooded hill on the margin of the lake, shining in all the beauties of foliage, set of with all the advantage of form. A noble expanse of water, broke just in the centre by a large island dressed in wood, another cultivated and fringed with trees, and a third with a hut upon it, stript of its late ornamental trees, by the unfeeling hand of avarice. On the eastern side, a bold shore, steep and wooded to the water's edge; above these, rise daring rocks in every horrid shape. A strange mixture of wood and rocks succeeds to the southern extremity of the lake, where the grand pyramidal Castle Crag commands the whole: The western shore is indented with wooded promontories down to Foe Park, the hill first described on the lower margin of the lake. The mountains all round rise immediately from the lake, but those that form the outline to the south, are much broken and picturesque. These are the parts of the scene Mr. Gray says is the sweetest he ever saw, in point of pastoral beauty. But whoever takes this view from Ormthwaite, in a field on the western side of the house, will be convinced of Mr. Gray's loss in want of information. The very spot he stood upon is in the center of the fore-ground, and is a principal object in the pastoral part of the picture he praises so highly.
Sailing round the lake opens a new field of landscape. Mr. Gray neglected it, and Mr. Mason thinks he judged well. Messrs. Young, Hutchinson, and Pennant tried it, and admired it. Dr. Brown prefers sailing, and landing on every promontory, and anchoring in every bay. The transparent beauty of the lake is only seen in the boats and it is very surprising. The botton resembles a mosaic pavement of party coloured stone, the fragments of spar at the depth of seven yards, shine like diamonds, or glitter in diversity of colour; and such is the purity of the lake, that no mud or ooze defiles its bottom. Mr. Pennant navigated the lake, and his description is more compressed then any other, and gives a distinct idea of appearance from it.
" The view on every side are very different: Here all the possible variety of Alpine scenery is exhibited, with all the horror of precipice, broken crag, overhanging rock, or insulated pyramidal hills, contrasted with others whose smooth and verdant sides, swelling into immense aerial heights, at once please, and surprise the eye.
" The two extremities of the lake afford most dischordant prospects: The southern is a composition of all that is horrible; an immense chasm opens, whose entrance is divided by a rude conic hill, once topt with a castle, the habitation of the tyrant of the rocks; beyond, a series of broken mountainous crags, now patched with snow, soar one above the other, overshadowing the dark winding deep of Borrowdale. In the recesses are lodged variety of minerals,& c.
" But the opposite, or northern view, is in all respects a strong and beautiful contrast: Skiddaw shews its vast base, and bounding all that part of the vale, rises gently to a height that sinks the neighbouring hills; opens a pleasing front, smooth and verdant, smiling over the country like a gentle generous lord, while the fells of Borrowdale frown on it like a hardened tyrant.
" Each boundary of the lake seems to take part with the extremities, and emulates their appearance: The southern varies in rocks of different forms, from the tremendous precipice of Lady's - Leaf, the broken front of Falcon's - Nest, to the more distant concave curvature of Lowdore, an extent of precipitous rock, with trees variegating from their numerous fissures, and the foam of the cataract precipitating amidst.
" The entrance into Borrowdale divides the scene, and the northern side alters into milder forms; a salt-spring, once the property of the monks of Furness, trickles along the shore; hills( the resort of shepherds) with downy fronts, and lofty summits, with wood clothing their bases to the water's edge.
" Not far from hence the environs appear to the navigator of the lake, to the greatest advantage, for on every side mountains close the prospect, and form an ampitheatre almost matchless.
" The isles that decorate this water are finely disposed, and very distinct; rise with gentle and regular curvatures above the surface, consist of verdant turf, or are planted with various trees. The principal is the Lord's Island, above five acres, where the Ratcliff family had some time its residence; and from this lake took the title of Derwent Water.
" St. Herbert's Isle was noted for the residence of that saint, the bosom friend of St. Cuthbert, who wished, and obtained his desire of departing this life on the same day, hour, and minute, with that holy man.
" The water of Derwent Water, is subject to violent agitations, and often without any apparent cause, as was the case this day; the weather was calm, yet the waves ran a great height, and the boat was tossed violently with what is called a bottom wind."
Dr. Brown recommends as the complement of the tour of this lake," a walk by still moon light( at this time the distant water-falls are heard in all their variety of sound) among these enchanting dales, opens a scene of such delicate beauty, repose, and solemnity, as exceeds all description."
An expedition of this kind depends upon the choice of time in making the tour, it is better a little before, then after the full moon. If the evening be still, the voice of water-falls are re-echoed from every rock and cavern, in all their beauty of sound. The setting sun tips the mountain's tops with golden rays; and the rising moon gilds all with her silver beams. The surface of the lake, that in the day appears blue as glass, or clear as crystal; reflecting the azure sky, the deep green woods, or silver coloured rocks, is now a sable mirror, studded with the reflected gems of the starry heavens; a plain on which are pencilled by the silver moon, the faint outlines and shadows of the hills, behind which she labours; all is in faint light, grave shade, or solemn darkness, that increases with solemn horror the whole scene, that strikes the mind of the beholder with reverential awe and pleasing melancholy. -- An effect that nature can only produce, and art but humbly imitate.
The characteristic of this lake is, that it retains its form viewed from any point and, never assumes the appearance of a river: This is owing to the proportion of its dementions.
The fish here are trout, perch, pike, and eel.
Bassenthwaite Water.

Having seen the glory the Keswick, the beauties of the lake, and wonders of the environs, there remains a pleasant ride to Ousebridge, and visit the lake of Bassenthwaite Water. Messrs. Gray and Pennant took the ride, but did not see the beauties of the lake, either for want of time or proper information.
Mr. Pennant says," Pass along the vale of Keswick, and keep above Bassenthwaite Water, at a small cultivated distance from it: This lake is a fine expanse of four miles in length, bounded on one side by high hills, wooded in many places to their bottoms; on the other side, by fields and the skirts of Skiddaw.
" From Mr. Spedding's of Armathwaite, at the low extremity of the lake, you have a fine view of the whole."
Mr. Gray allowed himself more time for particulars. " October 6th, went in a chaise, eight miles, along the east side of Bassenthwaite Water to Ouse Bridge, pronounced Ews Bridge, it runs directly along the foot of Skiddaw. Opposite to Widhope Brows, clothed to the top with wood, a very beautiful view opens down to the lake, which is narrower and longer than that of Keswick, less broken into bays, and without islands; at the foot of it, a few paces from the brink, gently sloping upwards, stands Armathwaite, in a thick grove of Scotch firs, commanding a noble view directly up the lake. At a small distance behind this, a ridge of cultivated hills, on which, according to the Keswick proverb, the sun always shines; the inhabitants here, on the contrary, call the vale of Derwent Water, the Devil's Chamber Pot, and pronounce the name of Skiddaw Fell, which terminates here, with a sort of terror and aversion. Armathwaite House is a modern fabric, not large, and built of dark red stone."
The singular beauties of this lake remain yet unnoticed, viz. the grand sinuosity of three noble bays.
Station I. From Armathwaite the lower bay is in full display, a fine expanse of water, spreading itself both ways behind a circular peninsula, Castle How, that swells in the middle, and is crowned with wood. In former times it has been surrounded by water, from the lake on one side, and the assistance of a brook that descends from Embleton, on the other. The accessible parts have been defended by trenches, one above another. The upper part has been occupied with building, the vestiges of ruins are visible; and, like other such places in this region, were probably occupied by the first inhabitants, as places of difficult access, and of easy defence. From the bottom of the bay, some waving inclosures rise to the side of a green hill, and some scattered houses are seen at the upper end of a fine slope of inclosures. The banks of the lake are fringed with trees, and under them the crystal water is caught in a pleasing manner. At the north west corner the Derwent issues from the lake, and is spanned by a handsome stone bridge of three arches. The whole western boundary is the noble range of wooded hills, the Wythop brows. On the eastern shore, the lake retires behind a peninsula, that rushes far into the water, and on its extreme point, a solitary oak, waving to every wind, is most picturesque. This is Scarenses. The coast upward is a fine cultivated tract to the skirts of Skiddaw, which raises here in awful majesty his purple front. Far to the south, Wallow Crag, with all the range of rock, and broken craggy mountains in Borrowdale, in fine perspective; and on their outline the spiral point of Langdale Pike appears blue as glass. The deep green woods of Foe Park, and golden front of Swinside, form a pleasing termination.
Station Ii. Return to the road by Scareness, and descend from the house to the oak tree, on the extremity of the promontory. The lake is here narrowest but immediately spreading itself both ways, forms two semicircular bays; that on the right is a mile across, the bay on the left is smaller, the shore on both sides finely variegated with low wood and scattered bushes, especially the peninsula itself. The upper bay is perfectly circular and finely wooded. In front, Wythop brows rise swift from the water's edge; the extremity of some inclosures are picturesque, seen just over the wood, with part of a cottage; the village of Wythop lies behind it in an aerial site. A grass inclosure scooped in the bosom of the hanging wood, and under it, a cot, on the very brink of the lake, stands sweetly. The views downward are fine, the banks high and woody to the bridge, of which two arches are in sight; behind it a white house is charmingly placed. More to the right, at the head of a gentle slope, in the very centre of view, stands Armathwaite, winged with groves; and behind, at a small distance, are deep hanging woods, and over them, spreading far to the right and left, a great reach of cultivated grounds. This termination is rich and pleasing to the eye. The view to the south is, as on the upper lake, much softned by distance. In the afternoon, and sun shining, the appearance of the silver grey rocks, glistening through the green woods that hang on their fissures, is most elegant. Behind, an appendix of Skiddaw rises in rude form; and over it, the chief of mountains frowns in Alpine majesty. This view is well seen from the house of Scareness.
Station Iii. The next remarkable promontory is Bradnas, a round green hill, that spreading itself into the lake, forms a bay, with Bowness to the south. The best general view of the lake is from the crown of this hill, behind the farm house; here you look over three bays finely formed. Nothing can be imagined more elegant than the sinuosity of this side, contrasted with the steep shore and lofty woods of the opposite. The view upwards is not less charming, indented and wooded to the water's edge.
If these views are taken, beginning with Bradness, then from Scareness take the road to Bassenthwaite Halls, a few houses so called; and from the road on the north side of the village, called Rakes, you have a very fine view of a rich cultivated tract, stretching along the banks of the lake, and spreading itself upwards to the skirts of Skiddaw. The elevation is such that every object is seen in full dimensions, and every beauty distinctly marked. The lake appears in its full magnitude, shaded by the bold wooded shore on the west, and graced by the sweet spreading vale on the east, that terminates in a bold stile under the surrounding mountains. The sloping ground to the bridge is charming, and the far extended vales of Embleton and Isle lie in fine perspective. The River Derwent has his winding course through the latter.
Antiquities. Caer Mot is about two miles further to the north, on the great road to old Carslile and Wigton. It is a green high crowned hill, and on its skirt, just by the road side, are the manifest vestiges of a square encampment, inclosed with a double loss, extending from east and west 120 paces, and from south to north 100 paces. It is subdivided into several cantonments, and the road from Keswick to old Carslile has crossed it at right angles, part of the agger is visible where it issues from the north side of the camp, till where it falls in with the line of the present road. It is distant about ten miles from Keswick, and as much from old Carslile, and about two miles west of Ireby.
Camden proposes Ireby for the Arbeia of the Romans, where the Bercarii Tigrinenses were garrisoned, but advances nothing in favour of his opinion. The situation is such as the Romans never made choice of, for a camp or garrison, and there remains no vestiges of either, by its being a deep glen, among surrounding hills, where there is no pass to guard, or country to protect, a body of men could be of no use. On the northern extremity of the said hill of Caer Mot are the remains of a beacon, and near it the vestiges of a square encampment, enclosed with a foss and rampart of 60 feet by 70. This camp is in full view of Blatum Bulgii( Bowness), and Olenacum( old Carslile), and commanding the whole extent of the Sloway Frith, would receive the first notice from any frontier station, where the Caledonians made the attempt to cross the frith, or had actually broke in upon the province; the notice would be communicated by the beacon on Caer Mot to the garrison at Keswick, by the watch on Castle Crag in Borrowdale. The garrison at Keswick would have the care of the beacon at the top of Skiddaw the mountain being of the easiest access on the side. By this means the alarm would soon become general, and the invaders were either terrified into flight, or the whole country was in arms to oppose them.
Whether these camps are the Arbeia I pretend not to say, but that they were of use to the Romans, is evident, and what the Britons thought of them, is recorded in the name they conferred on the hill, where they are situated.
The larger camp has no advantage of site, and is but ill supplied with water. The ground is of a spungy nature, and retains wet long, and therefore could only be occupied in the summer months. They seem to have the same relation to old Carlisle and Keswick, as the camp at Whitbarrow has to old Penrith and Keswick.
From Caer Mot descend to Ouse Bridge, and return to Keswick up the western side of the lake. Every lower of landscape should take this ride in the afternoon; and if they sun shines, it is pleasant and fine. The road branches off the great road to Cockermouth a little below the bridge, and leads through the wood, and round the Castle Row: In some places it rises above the lake a considerable height, and the water is seen at intervals through a screen of low wood, that decks the banks of the lake, which is sometimes entirely concealed, and again suddenly caught at breaks in the wood. The road descends to the level of the water, and presents you with a variety of surprising views in different stiles, that shew themselves in an agreeable succession, as the eye wanders in amazement along the lake.
Station Iv. At Beck Wythop, the lake spreads out in a great expanse of water; its outlet concealed by Castle How. The immediate shore is lined with rocks, that range along banks completely dressed in low wood; and over them Wythop brows, rise almost perpendicular. The opposite shore is much variegated, and deep embayed by the bold promontories of Scareness, Bowness, and Bradness. Just opposite to you, a little removed from the margin of the lake, and under a range of wood, see the solitary church of Bassenthwaite; its back guard is gloomy Ullock, a descendant hill of parent Skiddaw, robed in purple heath, trimmed with soft verdure. The whole cultivated tract between the mountains and the lake is seen here in all its beauty, and Skiddaw appears no where of such majestic height as from this point, magnified by the accompanyment of lesser hills that surround his base.
Over the northern extremity of his expanse of water, the ground rises in an easy slope, and in the point of beauty Armathwaite is seated, queen of the lake, on which she smiles in graceful beauty, and elegant ease. On each hand are hanging woods; the space between confesses much cultivation, divided by inclosures, waving up to farms seen under the skirts of Caer Mot, the crown topt hill, that closes this scene with the most elegant form, and in the sweetest manner possible. If the sun shines you may be entertained here for hours with pleasing variety of landscape. All the views up the lake, are in a stile great and sublime. They are seen in the bosom of the lake, and, by reflection, softened with pleasing tints, and rich colouring. The magnitude of objects is preserved, or but little diminished by the convexity of the watery mirror; but to the glass is reserved the finished picture, in highest colouring, and just perspective. As you emerge from the wood, at the gate leading to the open space, there is a magnificent bird's - eye view, Keswick in the centre of a grand ampitheatre of mountains. Proceeding along the banks of the lake, the road leads through Thornthwaite and Portinscale to Keswick.
A morning ride up the vale of Newland to
Buttermere,& c.

This ride remains hitherto unnoticed, though one of the most pleasing and surprising in the environs of Keswick. Company who visit the vale of Keswick, and view the lake from Castle Rigg: Latrigg, Swinside, and vicarage, imagine inaccessible mountains only remain beyond the line of this amazing tract. But whoever takes the ride up Newland vale, will be agreeably surprised with some of the finest solemn pastoral scenes, they have yet beheld. An arrangement of vast mountains, entirely new, both in form and colouring of rock. Vast hollow craters scooped in their bosoms, once the seeming seats of raging liquid fire; at present overflowing with purest water, that foams down the craggy brows in impetuous torrents; woods skirt their base, and lakes lie at their feet, clear as the Derwent. The softer parts of these scenes, are verdant hills patched with wood, spotted with variety of rock, and pastured with herds and flocks.
The ride is along Swinside, and having turned the brow of the hill, and past the first houses through which the road leads, observe at the gate on the right, a view down a narrow vale, pleasing in a high degree.
The road winds through a glade, along the side of a rapid gurgling brook, that ripples down a stony channel; its water clear as crystal. At the hedge-row-tree under Rowlingend, a brawny mountain, turn and have a new and pleasing view of the vale of Keswick. The road has a gentle ascent, and the rivulet is heard murmuring below. At the upper end of the cultivated part of the vale, a green pyramidal hill, divided into waving inclosures, looks down the vale upon Keswick,& c. Ther verdant hills on each side terminate in awful, rude mountains, that tower to the skies in variety of grotesque forms, and on their murky furrowed sides hang many torrents. Above Gasgadale, the last houses in Newland, no traces of human industry appears; all is naked solitude and simple nature, in a variety of fantastic forms. The vale now becomes a dell, the road a path. The lower parts are pastured with a motly herd, the middle tract the flocks assume, the upper regions, to man inaccessible, are abandoned to the birds of Jove. Here untamed nature holds her reign in solemn silence, amidst the gloom and grandeur of dreary solitude. The morning sun beaming on the blue and yellow mountains sides, produces effects of light and shade, the most charming that ever a son of Apelles, or genius of Raphael imagined. In approaching the head of Newland Hawse, on the left, a mountain of purple coloured rock presents a thousand gaping chasms, excavated by torrents that roaring fall into a bason, formed in the bosom of the mountain, and thence precipitating over a wall of rock, become a brook below. In front is a vast rocky mountain, the barrier of the dell, that opposes itself to all further access. Among the variety of water-falls that distinguish this awful boundary of rock, one catches the eye at a distance, that exceeds the boasted Lowdore, as much as Cawsey Pike does Castle Rigg, in height of rock, and unity of fall; whilst the beholder is free from all anxiety of mind in the approach; not one pebble or grain of sand offends, but all is nature in her sweetest trim of verdant turf, spread out to please her votaries.
Whoever would enjoy, with ease and safety, Alpine views, and pastoral scenes in the sublime stile, may have them in this morning ride.
The road, or rather tract becomes less agreeable for a few roods, not from any difficulty in the finest mountain turf, where roads may be made at the least expence, but from the dulness of the dalesmen, who habituate themselves to tread in the tract made by their flocks. It will not be labour lost to walk a few roods, and see a new creation of mountains, as unlike what are left behind, as the Andes are to the Alps. The contrast is really striking, and appear at once on the summit of the hill. On the right, at the head of a deep green dell, a naked furrowed mountain of an orange hue, has a strange appearance amongst his verdant neighbours, and sinks, by his height, Skiddaw itself.
Descend the tract on the left, and soon have in sight the highest possible contrast in nature, in sublime Alpine scenery. Four spiral, towering mountains, dark, dun and gloomy at noon-day, rise immediately from the western extremity of the deep narrow dell, and hang over Buttermere. The more southern is by the dalesmen, from its form, called Hay Rick; the more pyramidal, High Crag; the third High Steel; and the fourth, from the ferruginous colour, Red Pike. Between the second and third, there is a large crater, that from the parched colour of conical mountains, is whose bosom it is formed, appears to have been the focus of a volcano in some distant period of time, and the cones produced by explosion. At present it is the reservoir that feeds the roaring cataract you see in the descent to Buttermere. Here all is barreness, solitude, and silence, only interupted with the murmurs of a rill, that runs unseen in the narrow bosom of a deep dell. The smooth verdant sides of the vast hills on the right, have many furrows engraven in their sides by the winter rains; and the fable mountains in front, present all the horrors of cloven rock, broken cliff, and mountain streams tumbling headlong. Some traces of industry obtruding themselves at the foot of the glen, disturb the solemn solitude, with which the eye and mind have been delighted, and point out your return to society, and that you approach the village of Buttermere, which is situated betwixt the lakes, and consists of sixteen houses. The chapel here is very small, the stipend not large, and though twice augmented with the queen's bounty, exceeds not twenty pounds per annum. This is one of the cures Mr. Pennant mentions, but the perqusites of the clog-shoes, harden-sark, whittle-gate, and goos-gate, the present incumbent does not enjoy. The horrid dark mountains above described, scoul over the village, and the cataract from the crater thunders down their sides.
The life of the inhabitants is purely pastoral; a few hands are employed in the state quarries; the women spin woolen yarn, and drink tea. Above the village you have a view of the upper lake, two miles in length, and much under one in breadth. It is terminated on the western side by the ferruginous mountains already described; a stripe of cultivated ground adorns the eastern shore. A group of houses, Gatesgarth, is seated on the southern extremity, under the most extraordinary ampitheatre of mountainous rock that ever eye beheld, Honistar Crag rising to an immense height, flanked by two conic mountains, Fleetwith on the east, and Scarf on the western side. A hundred mountain torrents form a never failing cataract, that down the centre of the rock, fall foaming headlong with a thundering noise, and form the lake.
Mr. Gray's account of Barrowside, and his relation to Borrowdal, are hyperboles, the sport of fancy that he was pleased to indulge himself in. A person that has crossed the Alps or Appenines, will meet with only miniatures here of the huge rocks and precipices, the vast hills, and snow topt mountains he saw there; and though he may observe much similarity in the stile, there is none in the danger. Skiddaw, Helvellyn, and Catchidecam, are but dwarfs when compared with mount Maudite above the lake of Geneva, and the guardian mountains of the Rhone. Here the rocky scenes and mountain landscape, are diversified and contrasted with all that agrandizes the subject in the most sublime stile; and constitutes a picture the most enchanting of any in these parts. If the roads in some places are narrow and difficult, they are at least safe; no villainous banditti haunt the mountains; innocent people live in the dells. Every cottager is narrative of all he knows; and mountain virtue, and pastoral hospitality are found at every farm. This constitutes a pleasing difference betwixt travelling here and on the continent, where every innholder is an extortioner, and every voiturine an imposing rogue.
The space betwixt the lakes is under a mile, of pasture and meadow ground. The lower lake, called Crummock Water soon opens after you leave the village, and pass through an oaken grove. A fine expanse of water sweeps away to the right under a rocky promontory, Randon Knot, or Buttermere Hawse. The road serpentizes round the rock, and under a rugged pyramidal craggy mountain. From the crest of this rock, the whole extent of the lake is discovered. On the western side, the mountains rise immediately from the water's edge, bold and abrupt. Just in front between Blea Crag and Mellbreack are two spiral hills; the hoarse resounding noise of a water-fall is heard across the lake, concealed within the bosom of the cliff, through which it has forced its way, and when viewed from the foot of the fall, is a most astonishing phAEnomenon.
This lake is beautified with three small isles; one of rock lies just before you. The whole eastern shore is diversified with bays, the banks with scattered trees, and a few inclosures, terminated by a hanging wood. At the foot of the lake a high crowned hill pushes forward, fringed with trees, and sweetly laid out with inclosures; and above it, on a cultivated slope, is the chapel of Lowes Water, surrounded with scattered farms; behind all, Low Fell swells his verdant front, a sweet contrast to his murky neighbours, and a pleasing termination, seen from the top of this rock, or from the bosom of the lake.
The chain of pyramidal mountains, on each side of this narrow vale, are extremely picturesque, they rise from distinct bales, and swell into the most grotesque forms, and burst into rocky heads, serated here, and broken there.
These lakes are of a much greater depth than Derwent, and may be the only reason why they hold char, and the other does not. The char in the summer months retire to the deeps, probably to avoid the heat. The water here is clear, but not so transparent as the Derwent. The outlet is at the north east corner, by the River Cocker, over which is handsome stone bridge of four arches. This lake is four miles in length, and almost half a mile over in some places.
Lower Water.

Proceed from the bridge by High Cros, to the lake of Lowes Water. Having passed through a gate that leads to the common, the lake spreads out before you, a mile in length, and of equal breadth, about a quarter of a mile. The extremities are rivals in beauty of hanging woods, little groves, and waving inclosures, with farms seated in the sweetest points of view. The south end is overlooked by lofty Mellbreack, at whose foot a white house, within some grass inclosures, under a few trees, stands in the point of beauty; the eastern shore is open, and indented with small bays; the opposite side is more pleasing. Carling Knot presents a broad pyramidal front of swift ascent, covered with soft vegetation, and sprinkled with many aged solitary thorns. On each side the outline waves upward in the finest manner, terminated in a cone of grey rock, patched with verdure.
This lake, in opposition to all the other lakes, and the fall of the mountains, has its course from north to south, and under Mellbreak falls into the Crummock Water.
This lake is of no great depth, and without char, but it abounds, as all the others do, in fine trout,& c.
An evening view of both lakes, is from the side of Mellbreack, at the gate, under a copice of oak, in the road of Ennerdale. Nothing exceeds, in composition, the parts of this landscape; they are all great, and lie in fine order of perspective. If the view be taken from the road knowl at the lower end of the lake, the appearance of the mountains that bound it is astonishing. Mellbreack on the right, and Grasmere on the left, are in the points of distance, on the near fore-ground of this landscape, and betwixt them, a stupendous ampitheatre of mountains, their heads all broken and dissimilar, and of different hues; their bases are skirted with wood, or cloathed with verdure. In the centre point of this ampitheatre, is a huge pyramidal broken rock, that seems, with its figure, to change place as you move across the fore-ground, and gives much variety to the scenes, and changes the picture at every pace. The picturesque views here are many; the scenes, some mixt, others purely sublime, all surprise and please. The genius of the greatest adepts in landscape, might here improve in taste and judgement; and the most enthusiastic ardor for pastoral poetry, and painting, will here find an inexhaustible source of studies, and magical scenes.
When the roads to Ennderdale and West Water are improved, they may be taken in this morning ride; Smith's views of them are the truest likenesses.
From the Bridge at the foot of the lake, ascend the road to Brackenthwaite. At the hedge ale-house, Scale Hill, take a guide to the top of the rock, above Mr. Bertie's woods, and have a view of Crummock Water entirely new. The River Cocker is seen winding through a beautiful, and rich cultivated vale, spreading far to the north, variegated with woods, groves, and hanging grounds, in every pleasing variety. The most singular object in this vale of Lorton and Brackenthwaite, is a high crown-topt rock, that divides the vale, and raises a broken craggy head over hanging woods, that skirt the sloping sides, cut into waving inclosures, varied with groves, and patches of copice wood. To the west, a part of Lowes Water lake is seen, under a fringe of trees at High Cros. Behind you, awful Grasmere, the Skiddaw of the vale, frowns in all the majesty of furrowed rock, cut almost perpendicular to the center by the water-fall of ages. The swell of a cataract is heard, but entirely concealed within the gloomy recess of a rocky dell, formed by the rival mountains, Grasmere and Silverside, whose purple dress is variegated with silver-grey rock. At their feet lie the mighty-ruins, brought down from the mountains by the memorable water-spout, that deluged all the vale in September, 1760.
After this, the mountains become humble hills, and terminate the sweet vale, that Carline Knot, spreading itself into a country watered by the Cocker. The ride down the vale is pleasant; all the scenes are smiling, rich, and rural. Every dalelander appears to be a man of taste, every village, house, and cot, is placed in the choicest site, and decorated in the finest manner and stile of natural elegance. Not one formal avenue, or streight lined hedge, or square fish-pond offends the eye in all this charming vale. The variety of situation gives diversity of views, and a succession of pleasing objects creates the desire of seeing.
The back view is under a wooded hill, near the fifth mile-post, and is fine. Here return up the great road to Keswick.
From Keswick to Penrith, seventeen miles of excellently good road, through an open wild country.
Antiquities. Upon Hutton Moor, and on the north side of the great road, may be traced the path of the Roman road, that leads from old Penrith, or Plumpton Wall, in a line almost due west, to Keswick. Upon the moor are the traces of a large encampment that the road traverses. And a little beyond the eighth mile-post, on the left, at Whitbarrow, are strong vestiges of a square encampment. The Roman road beyond that, is met with in the inclosed fields of Whitbarrow, and is known by the farmers, from the opposition they meet with in plowing across it. After that it is found entire on the common called Graystock Low-Moor; and last summer they have formed a new road on the agger of it. It proceeds in a right line to Graystock town: where it makes a flexure to the left, and so continues in a line to Blencow, and is found in a plowed field, about 200 yards to the north of Little Blencow, pointing at Coach Gate, and from thence it passes on the north-side of Kellbarrow, and through Cow Close, and was discovered in making the new turnpike road from Penrith to Cockermouth, which it crossed near the toll-gate; from thence it stretches over Whitrigg in a right line, and is visible on the edge of the wood at Fairbank, and in the lane called Low Street; from thence it points through enclosed land, to the south end of the station, called Plumpton Wall, and old Penrith. It crossed the brook Petteral, at Topin Holme.
In the year 1772, near Little Blencow, in removing a heap of stones, two urns were taken up, about two feet and a half high, made of very coarse earth, and crusted on both sides with a brown clay, the top remarkably wide, and covered with a red flat stone. Besides the ashes and bones, each urn had a small cup within it, of a fine clay, in shape of a tea-cup; one was pierced in the center of the bottom part. The place where they were taken up is called Loddon How, within 20 yards of the road between Penrith and Skelton, and about 200 yards from the Roman road, and four miles from the station. On the banks of the Petteral, a few roods from the south corner of the station, an altar was lately found. Its height three feet four inches, and near sixteen inches square; it had been thrown down from the upper ground, and the corners of it broke off in the fall. The front has been filled with an inscription, the letters short and square, but not one word legible. On the right hand side is the ptera, with a handle, and underneath the secespita. On the opposite side is the ampula, and from its lip a serpent or viper descends in waves. The back part is rude, as if intended to stand against a wall. The emblems are in excellent preservation.
The castrum is 168 paces from south to north, by 110 within the foss, which was also surrounded with a stone-wall; the stones have been removed to the fence wall on the road side, and being in Plumpton, is called Plumpton Wall.
The station is a vast heap of ruins, of stone buildings; the walls of great thickness and cemented. The town has surrounded the station, except on the side of the Petteral. But whether the station took its name from the river, as being upon its banks, and was called the Pettriana, or whether the station gave name to the river, which is the least probable, let him who can determine.
The station is twelve miles and three quarters from Carlisle, five and a quarter from Penrith, about seven from Brougham Castle, and about eighteen from Keswick, where an intermediate station must have been between Ambleside, and Moresby, and between old Penrith and Moresby, having Caer Mot between it and old Carlisle, and Papcastle between it and Moresby. The summer station would be on Castle Hill, and the winter station on the area of the present town of Keswick, or on some convenient place betwixt the conflux of the rivers Greeta and Derwent. And it is more probable that the Dirventione of the Choragraphia was here, than at Papcastle, which comes better in for the Pampocalia of the same Choragraphia. A station here would be an efficacious check on any body of the enemy that might cross the estuaries, above or below Boulness, and pass the watch there, and the garrisons at old Carlisle, Ellenborough, Papcastle, and Moresby; for it was impossible for any body of men to proceed to the south but by Borrowdale or Dunmail Raise, and a garrison at Keswick commanded both these passes. The watch at Caer Mot would give the alarm to that on Castle Crag, in the pass of Borrowdale, and the centinel on Castlet Head that overlooks Keswick, would communicate the same to the garrison there; so it is apparently impossible that any body of men could pass that way. But if they attempted a rout on the northern side of Skiddaw, and over Hutton Moor to Patterdale, the watch at Caer Mot was in sight, both of old Carlisle and Keswick, and the garrison of the latter might either pursue, or give notice to Whitbarrow and Ambleside, to meet them in the pass at the head of Patterdale, called Kirkston, which is so steep and narrow, and crowded with rocks, that a few veteran troops would easily stop the career of a tumultuous crowd, who falling back upon each other, would increase their destruction, in flying down a precipitous pass; if they made good the pass, and turned to the east before the Romans arrived, they would in that case be harassed in the rear, till they arrived at Kendal, where the watchment from Water Crook would be ready to receive them, and then they would be attacked in front and rear. That the Romans have had engagements at Kirkston pass, is evident from the Roman arms that were lately found in the ajoining moss; there are also many heaps of stones collected, which have the appearance of barrows.
These are the only passes amongst the mountains, that a body of Calendonians could attempt in their way to the south, and these could not be secured without a station at Keswick, and that could not be more advantageously placed, than were the town stands, on the meeting of the roads from the surrounding stations, all about an equal distance, and at such a distance as rendered a station here necessary, and the several castellums, on Castle Crag, and Castle Hill, and Castlet, useful in giving notice, and guarding these important posts. That no vestige is now visible of a station ever being here, nor any notice taken of it by Camden, Horsley, and others, nor even a traditional record of its existence, are seeming difficulties, which put the negative on what has been advanced. That no vestiges remain only proves that the place had been defaced at an early period, when no care was taken to preserve the memory of such remains, and that the town occupies the whole area of the station, and that the station had been placed within the site of the town, probably in the lower part, facing the pass of the Greeta. In the wheel of the Greeta, a meadow peninsulated by the river, just below the town, and called the Goats Field, there are vestiges of a foss, but too imperfect to draw a conclusion from, in favour of the station. The ground round the town is very fertile, and has been long enough cultivated to destroy any remains; what have been accidentally discovered are gone into oblivion, and no change happening in the town itself to occasion new discoveries, the memory of what has been is fled with time. If Camden visited Keswick, he was satisfied with the then present state of the" little town, which King Edward I. made a market." The face of the country only drew his attention. The Horsley never visisted these parts is evident, from his mistaken account of the road from Plumpton Wall to Keswick, which he says passed through Graystock Park this, had he but seen the face of the country, he could never had imagined. His mistake, and Camden's silence, gave occasion to a regular survey of the said road, and finding the military roads from Papcastle, Elenborough, Moresby, Ambleside, and Plumpton, all concide at Keswick, and for the other reasons already assigned, it appeared evident that a station must be some where near. The Castle Hill above Keswick, is a faithful record of the existence of a station in this country. Here was the seat of the ancient lords of the manor by Derwent Water, probably raised on the ruins of the Roman fortress: But after the heiress of that family was married to Ratcliff's, the family seat was removed into Northumberland, and the castle went to ruins; and with the stones thereof the Ratcliffs built a house of pleasure in one of the islands of Derwent Water. The name Castle Hill, being more ancient that the last erection is still retained. At Ambleside when I enquired for the Roman station, a few years ago, no one could inform me, but upon one person considering the description I gave of it, answered, It is the castle. The station at Plumpton is called by the same name; and at Kendal, the castellum that overlooks the station, is also called the Castle Steads. So here the Castle Hill, is the place of the summer station, but being a fruitful tract, and much plowed, I have not been able to trace any appearance of a foss or vallum, and therefore the whole of this conjecture must rest upon the necessity, or at least on the expediency of a station here. Since the writing of the above, in a field below the town, an urn with other remains was found by the plow, and said to be Roman.
 Nicholeson's hist. of Cumber. page 86.
Ulls Water.

Those who do no chuse to go as far as Penrith, may, near the eighth mile-post turn off to the right; Mell Fell, a round green hill, will be on the left to Matterdale; and into Gowbarrow Park, which brings them upon Ulls Water, about the middle part of it, where it is seen to great advantage. But here it must be observed that some of the greatest beauties of the lake, and sweetest scenes, are entirely lost by this rout. Dunmallet, the greatest ornament of the lake, with the whole of the first great bend remain unseen, and much of the dignity of the lake is thereby destroyed. It is therefore better to ride on to the gate on the right, that leads to Dacre, and over Dacre common, to the foot of Dunmallet. By this course, every part of the lake will be viewed to the greatest advantage.
Mr. Gray's choice of visiting this lake was from Penrith, up the vale of Eamon. " A grey autumnal day, went to see Ulls Water, five miles distant; soon left Keswick road, and turned to the left through shady lanes along the vale of Eamon, which runs rapidly on near the way, ripling over the stones; to the right Dalemain a large fabric of pale red stone, with nine windows in front, and seven on the side. Farther on, Hutton St. John, a castle-like old mansion of Mr. Huddleston's. Approach Dunmallet, a fine pointed hill, covered with wood. Began to mount the hill, and with some toil, gained the summit. From hence saw the lake opening directly at my feet, majestic in its calmness, clear and smooth as a blue mirror, with winding shores, and low point of land, covered with green inclosures, white farm houses looking out among the trees, and cattle feeding. The water is almost every where bordered with cultivated lands, gently sloping upwards, from a mile to a quarter of a mile in breadth, till they reach the feet of the mountains, which rise very rude and awful with their broken tops on either hand. Directly in frout, at better than three miles distance, Place Fell, one of the bravest among them, pushes its bold broad breast into the midst of the lake, and forces it to alter its course, forming first a large bay to the left, and then bending to the right. Descended Dunmallet by a side avenue, only not perpendicular, and came to Barton Bridge over the Eamon. Then walked through a path in the wood, round the bottom of the hill, came forth where the Eamon issues out of the lake, and continued my way along the western shore, close to the water, and generally on a level with it; it is nine miles long, and at widest under a mile in breadth. After extending itself three miles and a half in a line to the south west, it turns at the foot of Place Fell, almost due west, and is here not twice the breadth of the Thames at London. It is soon again interrupted by the root of Helvellyn, a lofty and very rugged mountain, and spreading again, turns off to the south east, and is lost among the deep recesses of hills. To this second turning I pursued my way, about four miles, along its borders, beyond a village scattered among trees, and called Watermillock." Here Mr. Gray leaves us, and the greatest part of the lake unseen, and the most picturesque parts undescribed: The last bend of the lake is spotted with rocky isles, deeply indented with wooded promontories on one side, and rocks on the other.
Antiquities. Before you quit the top of Dunmallet, observe the vestiges of its former importance; an area of 110 paces, by 37, surrounded with a foss, still visible; stones of the rampart still peep through the grass. The well, that supplied the guard kept here, was but lately filled up with stones. This fort must have been of much consequence in guarding the lake, and commanding the pass; and maintaining a connexion between the garrisons of Ambleside and Brougham, being five or six miles distance from the latter, and nineteen from the former. There are strong vestiges of a square sort on Soulby Fell, which communicates with this and the camp at Whitbarrow.
Opposite to Watermillock, a cataract descends the front of Swarth Fell, in Martindale forrest. At Skilling Nab, a bold promontory, the lake is contracted to a span, but soon spreads itself again both ways, forming a variety of sweet bays and promontories. After a reach of three miles, it winds, with a grand sweep, round the smooth breast of Place Fell, and making a turn directly south, advances with equal breadth towards Patterdale. The western shore is various. Drawing near the second bend, the mountains strangely intersect each other. Behind many wooded hills, rises Stone Cros Pike, and over all, steep Helvellyn shews his sovereign head. On the western side Yew Crag, a noble pile of rock, fronts Place Fell, where it weeps in a cataract to the lake. Gowbarrow Park opens with a grand ampitheatre of shining rock, the floor of which is spread with soft green pasture, once shaded with ancient oaks, to which many decayed roots bear witness. Scattered thorns, trees, and bushes vary the ground pastured with flocks, herds of cattle, and fallow-deer. The road winds along the margin of the lake, clear as a mirror, at every turn renewing scenes the finest that can be imagined. At the upper end of Gowbarrow Park, the last bend of the lake, which is by much the finest, opens, scattered with small rocky islands; the shores are bold, rocky, wooded, and much embayed. Pass New Bridge, the road winds up a steep rock, having the lake underneath you on the left. From the top, have a view under the trees both up and down the lake. Martindale Fell, a naked grey rock, on the oposite shore, rises abruptly from the water, to an Alpine height, the effect is astonishing. The rock you stand upon hangs over the lake, blue and unfathomable to the eye; an island in the middle space has beautiful effect. This is the most romantic, pleasing, and terrible situation upon the lake, especially if the wind blows the surges of the water against the rock below you. The shores on both sides upward are very pleasing, and the little decorating isles are scattered in the most exquisite taste, and delightful order. The ride along the banks, since the repair of the road, is charming.
The upper end terminates in sweet meadows, surrounded on the right by towering rocky hills, broken and wooded. Martindale Fell is the opposite boundary, skirted here with hanging inclosures, cots, and farms.
The principal feeders of the lake are Grysdale Beck, on the western corner, and Goldrill Beck; they enter the lake in a freer manner than the feeder of Derwent does, and make a much finer appearance where they join the lake.
From the bridge in Patterdale, Goldrill Beck serpentizes sweetly through the meadows, and falls easily into the lake about the middle of the vale. Glencairn Beck, descending from Helvellyn, joins the lake a Airey Bridge.
There is from the top of the rock, above the inn, a very charming view of the last bend of the lake, which constitutes one of the finest landscapes on it, and takes in just enough for a delightful picture. The nearest fore-ground is a fall of inclosures, a rocky wooded mountain that hangs over Patterdale House, Martindale Fell, is in the point of distance on the right; steep rocks, and shaggy woods hanging from their sides, on the left; Gowbarrow Park rises in a fine stile from the water edge for the back-ground; and a noble reach of water, beautifully spotted with rocky isles, charmingly disposed, with perpetual change of rocky shore, fill the middle space of this beautiful picture.
This lake is of a depth sufficient for breeding char, and abounds with variety of other fish. Trout of thirty pounds weight, and upwards, are said to be taken here.
The water of the lake is very clear, but has nothing of the transparency of Derwent, and is inferior to Buttermere and Crummock Water also in this respect. The stones in the bottom, and along the shores, are coated with mud.
Mr. Gray observed, in viewing this lake, the same order as at Keswick, along its banks and facing the mountains; from the parity of reason, that the idea of magnitude and magnificence are thereby increased as much as possible, with advantage of fore-ground; and every object viewed this way appears much higher than when seen from an elevated station, which depresses the dimension, on which the idea of magnitude and magnificence depend. This lake viewed from any height except Dunmallet, loses much of its dignity as a lake, from the number of its flexures, and juttings out of promontories, but it retains the appearance of a magnificent river ingulphed in rocks.
The bold winding hills, the intersecting mountains, the pyramidal cliffs, the bulging, broken, rugged-rocks, the hanging woods, the easy water-falls in some places, and in others the tumbling roaring cataract, are parts of the sublimer scenes in this surprising vale. The cultivated spots wave upward from the water in beautiful slopes, intersected by hedges, waving with trees in the most picturesque manner; mansions, cottages, and farms, placed in sweetest points, are the rural parts, and altogether form the most delightful charming scenes. The accompanyments of this lake are disposed in the most picturesque order, bending round its margin, and spreading upwards in craggy rocks and mountains, irregular in height and shape, and broken topt, yet much inferior in sublime height, and horrible grandeur to the environs of Keswick, and the dreaful rocks in Borrowdale. But in this opinion we have Mr. Cumberland against us, who having visited and seen the other lakes in dark unfavourable weather, when nothing could be seen, besides weeping rocks, flooded roads, and watery plains, darkened by sable clouds that hovered over them motionless, and concealed their variegated shores, entertained an unfavourable idea of them; and being more fortunate in a fine day, in that part of the tour, where he visited Ulls Water, he attuned his lyre in honour of this enchanting lake, and sung its charms in preference not only to Windermere, Grasmere, and the vale of Keswick, but raises it above the pride of Lomond and marvellous Killarney.
Mr. Cumberland in that sweet ode, represents himself upon the banks of the lake of Ulls Water, bemoaning himself, and the hardness of his fate, when the sun beaming forth, blessed him with a full display of all the beauties of this enchanting lake. In gratitude for so special a favour, in a true poetic rapture, he dedicates the charming ode to the God of Day, whose partiality to the lake of Patterdale he gratefully indulges in the following harmonious numbers.
 Me turbid skies and threatening clouds await, Emblems alas! of my ignoble fate.
But see the embattled vapours break, Disperse and fly, Posting like couriers down the sky; They grey rock glitters in the glassy lake; And now the mountain tops are seen Frowning amidst the blue serene; The variegated groves appear, Deckt in the colours of the waining year; And, as new beauties they unfold, Dip their skirts in beaming gold. Thee, savage Wyburn, now I hail, Delicious Grasmere's calm retreat, And stately Windermere I greet, And Keswick's sweet fantastick vale: But let her naids yield to thee, And lowly bend the subject knee, Imperial lake of Patrick's dale, For neither Scotish Lomond's pride, Nor smooth Killarney's silver tide, Nor ought that learned Pousin drew, Or dashing Rosa flung upon my view, Shall shake thy sovereign undisturbed right, Great scene of wonder and sublime delight!
Hail to thy beams, O sun! for this display, What, glorious orb, can I repay? ---- The thanks of an unprostituted muse. Ode to the Sun, page 18.
The navigators of this lake find much amusement by discharging guns, or small cannon, at certain stations; the report is reverberated from rock to rock, promontory, cavern, and hill, with variety of sound, dying away upon the ear, and again returning like peals of thunder, re-echoed seven times distinctly. Opposite to Water Millock is one of those stations.
The higher end of the lake is fourteen miles from Penrith, and then from Ambleside, good turnpike road, only at Staybarrow Crag the road is cut into the rock that awfully overhangs it, and is too narrow.
Above Goldrill Bridge the vale becomes narrow and poor, the mountains steep, naked, and rocky. Much blue slate of an excellent kind, is excavated out of their bowels. The ascent from the lake to the top of Kirkston is easy; there are many water-falls from the mountains on both sides. From the top of Kirkston to Ambleside the descent is quick. Some remarkable stones near the gorge of the pass are called High Trough.
The only lake that remains to be visited in this course is
Haws Water.

This is a pretty morning ride from Penrith, or it may be taken in the way to Shap, or from Shap and return to Kendal. There is also a road from Pooly Bridge, over the mountain to Ponton vale, a beautiful secreted valley.
Ascending the road from Pooly Bridge to the south, from the brow of the common, you have a grand general view of Ulls Water, with all its winding shore and accompanyments of woods, rocks, and mountains, bays and promontories, with all the flexures of shore to the entrance of Patterdale. To the north east you look down on Pooly Bridge, and the winding of the river guides the eye to a beautiful valley, much ornamented with plantations, in the midst of which Dalemain is seated, queen of the vale of Eamon. Turning south, proceed by White Raise, a large karned of stones; and near it, the remains of a small circus; ten stones are still erect. A little further on are the vestiges of a larger circus, of 22 paces by 25. All the stones except the pillar, are removed; it stands on the south side of the circus; the place is called Dovack Moor. Here the vale of Ponton opens sweetly to the view, ascending to the south, and spreading upwards in variety of daleland beauty. At the bridge the road turns to the right, and soon brings you upon Haws Water.
Mr. Young is the first that says any thing pretty of this sweet but unfrequented lake.
 Six month's Tour, vol. 3d, page 168.
 " The approach to the lake is very picturesque: You pass between two high ridges of mountains, the banks finely spread with inclosures; upon the right two small beautiful hills, one of them covered with wood; they are most pleasingly elegant. The lake is a small one, about three miles long, half a mile over in some places, and a quarter in others; almost divided in the middle by a promontory of inclosures, joined only by a strait, so that it consists of two sheets of water. The upper end of it is fine, quite inclosed with bold steep craggy rocks and mountains; and in the center of the end, a few little inclosures at their feet, waving upward in a very beautiful manner. The south side of the lake is a noble ridge of mountains, very bold and prominent down to the water's edge. They bulge out in the center in a fine, bold, pendant broad head, that is venerably magnificent: And the view of the first sheet of the lake losing itself in the second, among hills, rocks, woods,& c. is picturesque. The opposite shore consists of inclosures rising one above another, and crowned with craggy rocks."
The narrowest part, by report, is 50 fathom deep, and a man can throw a stone across it. Thwaite Force or fall, is a fine cataract on the right, and opposite to it, the first sheet of water is lost among the rocks and wood, in a beautiful manner. Bleak How-Crag, a ruinous rock, and over it, Castle Crag, a staring shattered rok, have a formidable appearance; and above all Kidsey Pike, on whose summit the clouds weep into a crater of rock, that is never dry. On the eastern side a front of prominent rock bulges out in a solemn naked mass, and a waving cataract descends the furrow side of a soft green hill; the contrast is fine. At Bleak How-Crag there is a fine back view.
Above the chapel all is hopeless waste and desolation. The little vale contracts into a glen, strewed with the precipitated ruins of mouldring mountains, and the destruction of water-falls.
Kendal is fourteen miles from the chapel, and whoever chuses an Alpine ride may proceed to it up this vale. From the chapel to the top of the mountain, three miles; descent into Longsledale is as much more. In approaching the mountain, Harter Fell scouls forward in all the terrific grandeur of hanging rock. As you approach it, a yawning chasm appears to divide it upwards from the base, and within it, is heard the hoarse noise of ingulphed waters; the harmony of cataracts and water-falls on all sides, add much to the solemnity of the tremendous scenes. The path soon becomes winding, steep, and narrow, and is the only possible one across the mountain. A roaring cataract on the left accompanies you during the ascent. On the summit of the mountain, you can come in sight of Longsledale, Lancaster sands,& c, and will presently be accompanied with a cataract, on the right, in the course of the descent. The road traverses the mountain as on the other side, but is much better made, and wider, on account of the slate, taken from the sides of these mountains, and carried to Kendal,& c. The water-falls on the right are extremely curious. You enter Longsledale between two shattered rocky mountains; that on the left, Crowbarrow, is not less terrible to look up at, when under it, than any rock in Barrowside or Borrowdale, and has covered a much larger space with ruins. Here is all the possible variety of water-falls and cataracts; the most remarkable is on the left; over a most tremendous wall of rock, a mountain torrent, in one unbroken sheet, leaps headlong one hundred yards, and more. The whole vale is narrow; the the hills rise swift on each hand, their brows are wooded, their feet covered with grass, or cultivated, their summits broken. The road along the vale is tolerable, and joins the great road at Watch Yate, about four miles from Kendal.
Haws Water may be taken first in the morning, and then cross the mountain by the road to Pooly Bridge for Ulls Water, and return in the evening to
Penrith.

So much is already said of this sweet town that nothing remains new to be added here. The situation is pleasant, open to the south. It is tolerably well built, and rather a genteel than a trading town. The town's people are civil, the inns commodious and well served; the company are polite and communicative to strangers.
Beside the few resident families, the life of this town is, the being a thorough-fare for travellers; for although it be seated in the midst of a rich and fruitful country, no manufacturers have been induced to fix here. Before the interest of the sister kingdoms became one, Penrith was a place of uncertain tranquility, and too precarious for the repose of trade and manual industry; being better circumstanced for a place of arms and military exercise. Yet since the happy change of spirit, no more than one branch of tanning, and a small manufacture of checks have taken place. Thi must be owing to want of attention in the people of property; or of industry in the inhabitants; the latter is not to be supposed, for the spirit of agriculture, introduced by the gentlemen of the environs, is in as flourishing a way amongst the farmers of this neighbourhood, as in other parts of the kingdom. The superfluities of the market are brought up for Kendal, where much of that is wanting which superabounds here.
The most remarkable objects here are the beacon, on the summit of the hill above the town, and the awful remains of a royal fortess, on the crest of the rising ground that commands the town. It is supposed to be an erection of Henry Vi. out of the ruins of a much more ancient structure called Mayburgh, but this is not very probable; since stones are easier quarried here than they could be got there. But as popular records have always some fact to rest upon, and truth in the bottom, so some facings and other principal stones being taken from Mayburgh, gave rise to the tradition; there might also have been a strong hold here in the time of the Romans. At present the buildings are ruins in the last stage. One stone arched vault remains, that from its situation, has been the keep, no longer terrible since the border service ceased, and the mutual intercourse of trade and alliance happily taken place of national reprisals, and family feuds.
The antiquity of this town is supposed to be found in its name, being of British derivation, from Pen and Rhudd, signifying, in that language, a red head or hill, and such is the colour of the hill above the town, and the ground and stones around it. But, with respect to situation, it may as well be derived from Pen, the head, and Rhyn, a promontory, and so be referred to the beacon hill. But it may be judged a more honourable etymon to derive the name from Pen and Rhydd, of Rhyddau to make free, and that on account of special service or fidelity to the Roman government, the Britons of this town were emancipated from the abject slavery, that the nation in general were subjected to by their tyrannical masters; and on that occasion the town was made free, and the inhabitants were honoured with the title of principal free-men, which they translated into their own language by Penrhydd, and was pronounced by the Britons, as by the Welch at this day, Penrith. It has been the happiness of this town to remain a royal franchise through all the ages of feudal servitude, at least since the reign of Edward I. without the incumbrance of a charter, and is peaceably governed by the steward of the honours, and a free jury. The honours of both town and castle belong to the truly noble Duke of Portland. In the churchyard are some sepulchral monuments, which have long been the subject of antiquarian speculation, not yet decided. Thus much is evident that the pillars are of one stone, formed like the ancient spears; the shafts round for about seven feet high; above that, they appear to be square, and to have terminated in a point. They are about ten feet high, stand parallel with the church, distant from each other fifteen feet, the space between is inclosed with circular stones, by some conjectured to represent boars. There remains visible, on the upper part of the pillars, some ornamental work, but no inscription or figures appear at present, and the stones are so much fretted by time, that it rests upon meer conjecture to affirm there ever were any such. They probably mark the tomb of some great man, or family, before the custom was introduced of interring within churches, and are probably British, or must be Saxon.
There are many pleasing rides in the environs of Penrith; most of them lead to curious remains, of ancient monuments, or modern improvements. In Whinfield Park are the Countes Pillar, the White Hart Tree, and the Three Brother Tree. The first is a filial tribute of Ann Countess Dowager of Pembroke, to the memory of her pious mother, Mary Countess Dowager of Cumberland; the others are the remains of aged oak, that have long outlived their own strength; one of them is upwards of nine yards in circumference. Brougham castle is an awful ruin, the Brovoniacum of the Romans, and since that the bulwark of Westmorland on that side, and the pride of its earls, for many descents. In a gallery overhead, is a stone with a Roman sepulchral inscription, much defaced. At Little Salkeld is the largest druidical circle in the northern parts. Near Eamont Bridge is Arthur's Round Table and at a small distance from it, is Mayborough, both of remote antiquity, and doubtful use. The first may be presumed to have been a place of public exhibition for martial exercises, and the latter has the conditions of a British fort; but the rude pillar inclines some to believe it the remains of a druid temple. It is entirely formed of loose stones and pebbles, collected from the adjacent rivers and fields; that the height has once been great, may be collected from the vast breadth of the base, encreased by the fall of stones from the top; it incloses a circular area of 80 yards of more, and near the middle stands a red stone, upwards of three yards high; the entrance is on the eastern side, and opens to a sweet view of Brougham House, to which the rude pillar, when whitened,( and of this Mr. Brougham is very careful,) is a fine obelisk. If the name of this very extraordinary monument was Brein Gwin, then Mr. Pennant, from Rowland, has pointed out the use of" a supreme consistory of druidical administration, as the British name imports." But if the present name be a Saxon corruption of the ancient name, which probably was Myfirion, by the Saxons pronounced Maybirion, or Maybir, and to bring it still nearer to their own language, Mayborough; then this conjecture being admitted, it will signify a place of study and contemplation. Such places the druids had, and were the public schools destined for the colloquial instruction of pupils in mysteries of religion, and the arcana of civil government. Druidical remains are frequent in this neighbourhood, many of them are analogous, but Mayborough is such a stupendous construction, that it must have been designed for some extraordinary use.
 Mona antiqua, page 84.
From the beacon the views are many, all extensive and vast: The eye is in the center of a plane inclosed with a circle of stupendous mountains of various forms, and awful heights. The plane itself is adorned with many ancient towns, and more ancient castles, stations, and castellums, where the Roman eagle long displayed her wings; but in these more happy days is possessed by a happier people, who enjoy, with freedom, their pleasant seats, and charming mansions, that meet the eye which ever way the head is turned, marked with all the refinements of liberal taste, and flourishing industry.
Haws Water my be conveniently visited from Penrith, returning from it by the ruins of Shap or Heppe abbey to Shap. The remains of this abbey are inconsiderable, yet picturesque; a square tower with piked windows is the chief part of the ruins, and does honour to the reign of King John, when it was built, for canons to the proemonstratensian order, that had been first placed near Preston Patrick in Kendal, by Thomas, son of Gospatrick.
This abbey was dedicated by the first founded to St. Mary Magdalene, and he endowed it with a large portion of his lands, in Preston in Kendal. His son translated it to Magdalene vale, near Shap, and further endowed it with the lands of Karol, or Karlwath. Robert De Veteripont( Vipont) first Lord of Westmorland, confirmed the precedent grants, and added to that of Matilda his mother, and Ive his brother, the tithes of all his mills, and of game killed in his lands, in Westmorland. This grant is dated on Saturday April 24th, 13th of King John.
From this sequestered spot continue the rout to the village of Shap, a proper place for refreshment before you face Shap fells, a dready melancholy tract of twelve miles. On the east side of the road, soon after you leave the village, observe a double range of huge granites, pitched in the ground, and at some distance from each other, leading to circles of small stones, and encreasing the space between the rows as they approach the circles, where the avenue is about 27 paces wide. They are supposed to have run quite through the village, and terminated in a point. It has long embarrassed the antiquaties, what to call this very uncommon monument of ancient chronology; Mr. Pennant has given a plausible explanation of it from Olaus Magnus, and supposes them to be the recording stones of a Danish victory obtained on the spot, and the stony circles to be the grateful tribute to the memory of consanguineous heroes slain in the action.
There is at a small distance to the east from these stones a spring, called Shap Spaw, in smell and taste like that of Harrowgate, much frequented by the people of the country for scorbutic complaints, and erruptions of the skin. Leaving behind you this gloomy region of black moors and shapeless mountains, approach a charming vale, which Mr. Young in his elegant manner describes thus,
" After crossing this dreary tract, the first appearance of a good country is most exquisitly fine; about three miles from Kendal, you at once look down from off this desolate country upon one of the finest landscapes in the world; a noble range of fertile inclosures richly enamelled with most beautiful verdure: And coming to the brow of the hill have a most elegant picturesque view of a variegated tract of waving inclosures, spreading over hills, and hanging to the eye in the most picturesque and pleasing manner that fancy can conceive. Three hills in particular are overlooked, cut into inclosures in a charming stile, of themselves forming a most elegant landscape, and worthy the imitation of those who would give the embellishments of art to the simplicity of nature."
The station from whence this description is taken, is about the midway between the third and fourth mile-stone, on the top of a rock on the east side of the road, called Stone Crag, which cannot be mistaken. The three hills referred to in the description, are on the near ground of the landscape. There are many beautiful hills and knowls scattered about the valley; some cultivated, others covered with wood, or shining in the softest verdure. But the most remarkable for picturesque form, is an oval green hill crowned with the ruins of a castle; it divides the valley, and overlooks a town hanging on the side of a steep mountain, this is
Kendal. 
The approach to it from the north is pleasant, a noble river, the Kent, is discovered flowing briskly through the fertile fields, and visiting the town in its whole length; it is crossed by a bridge more venerable than handsome, where three great roads coincide, from Sedberch, Kirkby Stephen, and Penrith. The main street leading from the bridge slopes upwards to the center of the town, and contracts itself to an inconvenient passage, where it joins another principal street, which falls with a gentle declivity both ways, is a mile in length and of a spacious breadth. Was an area for a market-place opened at the incident of these two streets, it would give the town a noble appearance. The entrance from the south is by another bridge, which makes a short awkward turn into the suburbs, after that the street opens well, and the town has a chearful appearance.
In this town is a workhouse for the poor, which for neatness and oeconomy, exceeds most of the kind in the kingdom. The inns are genteel and commodious, plentifully served, and the usage civil.
The objects most worthy of notice are the manufactures: The chief of these are of the Kendal Cottons, a coarse woolen cloth; of the linseys; of knit worsted stockings; and a considerable tannery. The lesser manufacturers are, of waste silk, which is received from London, and after scouring, combing, and spinning, is returned; of wool cards, in which branch considerable improvements have been made by the curious machines invented here; and of fish-hooks. There are other articles of industry well-worth seeing; the mills for scouring, fulling, and frizing cloth, for cutting and rasping wood dying wood,& c. But what is most to the credit of this place is, that notwithstanding several considerable inconveniences, which this town has ever laboured under, the manufactures have all along continued to flourish; and are particularly noticed so early as the reign of King Richard Ii. and Henry Iv. when special laws were enacted for the better regulation of the Kendal cloths; and have of late years been greatly encreased by the spirit and industry of the inhabitants.
When William the conqueror gave the barony of Kendal to Ivo De Taillebois, the inhabitants of Kendal were the villain-tenants of the baronial lord; but one of his successors emancipated them, and confirmed their burgages to them by charter. Queen Elizabeth in the 18th year of her reign erected it into a corporation, by the name of aldermen and burgages; and afterwards King James I. incorporated it with a mayor, 12 aldermen and 24 burgesses.
Mr. Gray's description of this town is equally injurious to it and his memory; but of the church and castle he is pointed. " Near the end of the town stands a handsome house of Colonel Wilson's, and adjoining to it, the church, a very large gothic fabric, with a square tower; it has no particular ornaments, but double isles, and at the east end four chapels or choirs." Mr. Gray's account then proceeds to the inside of the church, which he describes with his usual accuracy and ease. Speaking of the chapels," one of Parrs, another of Stricklands, the third is the proper choir of the church, and the fourth of the Bellinghams, a family now extinct. [ The Bellinghams came into Westmorland before the reign of Henry Vii. and where seated at Burneside. In the reign of King Henry Viii. Adam Bellingham purchased of the King the 20th part of a knights fee in Helsington, parcel of the possession of Henry Duke of Richmond, and of Sir John Lumley( Lord Lumley) which his father Thomas Bellingham had farmed of the crown, he was succeeded by his son James Bellingham, who erected the tomb, in the Bellingham's chapel.] There is an alter tomb of one of them( viz Adam Bellingham) dated 1577 with a flat brass arms and quarterings; and in the window of their arms alone, argent, a hunting-horn sable, strung gules. In the Strikland's chapel are several modern monuments, and another old alter tomb, not belonging to the family: On the side of it a fess dancette between two billets deincourt,[ this tomb is probably of Ralph D' Aincourt, who in the reign of King John married Helen, daugher of Anselm De Furness, whose daughter and sole heir Elizabeth D' Aincourt was married to William, son and heir of Sir Robert De Stirkland, of great Stirkland, knight, 23d of Henry Iii. the son and heir was Walter De Strikland, who lived in the reign of Edward I. was possesed of the fortunes of Anselm De Furness and D' Aincourt in Westmorland, and erected the above tomb, to the memory of his grandfather Ralph D' Aincourt. The descendants of the said Walter De Strikland have lived at Sizergh, in this neighbourhood ever since, and this chapel is the family burial place.] In Parr's chapel is a third alter tomb in the corner, no figure or inscription, but on the side, cut in stone, an escutcheon of Ros of Kendal, three water-budgets, quartering Parr, two bars in a bordure engrailed, 2dly, an escutcheon, vaire, a fess for marmion; 3dly, an escutcheon, three chevronels braced, and a chief, which I take for Fitzhugh: At the foot is an escutcheon, surrounded with the garter, bearing Ros and Parr quarterly, quartering the other two beforementioned. I have no books to look in, therefore cannot lay whether this is Lord Parr of Kendal, Queen Catherine's father, or her brother the Marquis of Northampton. Perhaps it is a cenotaph for the latter who was buried at Warwick, 1571." The castle he describes thus. " The remains, with four towers, two square and two round, but their upper part and embattlements are demolished: It is a rough stone and cement, without any ornament or arms, round, inclosing a court of the lake form, and surrounded by a moat; nor ever could it have been larger then it is, for there are no traces of out-works. There is a good view of the town and river, with a fertile open valley through which it winds." Had Mr. Gray ascended to the castle, which was the only way to it when in its glory, and is the easiest at present, he would have observed a square area that had been fortified with a deep moat, and connected to the castle by a draw-bridge, where was probably the base-court; the stones now are entirely removed and the ground leveled," and laughing Ceres reassumes the land." The present structure was undoubtedly raised by the first barons of Kendal and probably on the ruins of the Roman station; this being the most eligible site in the country for a summer encampment, and at a small distance from Water Crook. There are still some remains of a dark red freestone used in facings, and in the doors and windows, that has been brought from the environs of Penrith, more probably by the Romans, then either the Saxon or Norman lords. Fame says this castle held out against Oliver Cromwell, and was battered from the Castle Law-Hill, but this is not so probably, a that its present ruinous state is owing to the jealousy of the usurper.
 Brit. page 300.
There is a most pleasant morning ride of five miles, own the east side of the river, Water Crook is one mile distant on the right, close by the side of the Kent. This is the Concangium of the Romans, where a body of the Vigilatores, watchmen, kept guard, and was the intermediate station betwixt the Dictis at Ambleside, and the garrison at Overborough; the line of the foss may be still traced, though much defaced by the plough; alters, coins, and inscribed stones have been found here, and in the wall of the barn, on the very area of the station, is still legible the inscription, preserved by Mr. Horsley to the memory of two freed-men with an imprecation against any one who should contaminate their sepulchre, with a fine to the fiscal. There is also an alter without an inscription, and a Silenus without a head. At a small distance is a pyramidal knowl crowned with a single tree called Sattury, where something dedicated to the God Saturn has stood. Pass through the village of Natland; on the crest of a green hill on the left, called Helm are the vestiges of a castellum called Castle Steads, which corresponded, by smoke in the day and flame in the night, with the garrison at Lancaster, by the beacon on Warton Crag, during the residence of the watchmen at Water Crook. There is a house at a distance to the north, called Wath House, where Roman coins have been found. Proceed through Sigiswick, and fall in with the course of the river at Force Bridge, and from the crown of it have a very singular romantic view both ways of the river, working its way in a narrow deep channel of rocks, hanging over it in a variety of forms, streaming a thousand limpid rills into the flood. The rocks in the bottom are strangely excavated into deep holes of various shapes, that when the river is low remain full of water; from its depth, black as ink. The bridge is one bold arch suspended by the opposite rocks, its antiquity unknown; a mantle of ivy vails its ancient front, and gives it a most venerable appearance. If you ride down the west side of the river from the bridge, as far as the forge, to see the water-fall of the whole river, its stream is much impaired in beauty since the forge was erected. But if from the end of the uppermost house, you will look up between two trees in the midst of the channel you will see the whole body of the river issuing from a sable cavern, and tumbling over a rock of height just sufficient to convert into froth as white as snow, and behind it, the arch of the bridge is partly catched in a disposition that forms a very uncommon assemblage of picturesque beauties. This is seen in highest perfection when the stream is full. Return to the bridge, and ride down the east side of the river to Levins Park. If you are not provided with a key from Kendal, the keep must be applied to.
Here is one of the sweetest spots that fancy can imagine; the woods, the rocks, the river, the grounds, are rivals in beauty of stile, and variety of contrast. The bends of the river, the bulging of rocks over it, under which in some places it retires in haste, and again breaks out in a calm and spreading stream, are matchless beauties. The grounds in places are bold and hang to the river, or fall into gentle slopes, and decline into easy plains; all is variety with pleasing transition. Thickets cover the brows, ancient thorns, and more ancient oaks are scattered over the plain, and clumps, and solitary beach trees of enormous size, equal, if not surpass any thing the Chiltern Hills can boast. The park is well stocked with fallow-deer. The side of the Kent is famous for petrifying springs, that incrust vegetable bodies, as moss, leaves of trees,& c. There is one in the park, called the dropping well. At a small distance is Hincaster, where the Romans had a camp, and from the name the Britons have called it the old camp. Within the park is Kirks Head, mentioned by Camden as a place frequented by the Romans, yet nothing of late belonging to that people has been discovered at either place. Levins House, was the seat of a family of that name for many ages, then of Redman for many descernts, afterwards it came to Bellingham, and Adam, or his son James Bellingham gave it the present form in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and in taste of carvings in wood attempted to outdo his contemporary, Walter Strikland of Sizergh Esq; after Bellingham it came to Colonel Graham, and from his daughter by marriage to the ancestor of the present noble possessor. Return by Levens Bridge to Kendal, five miles. Have a new view of the valley, and the east side of Kent; at the park-gate have a charming view of Sizergh, shewing itself to the morning sun, and appearing to advantage from an elevated site under a bold and wooded back-ground. The tower was built in the reign of Henry Iii. or Edward I. by Sir William Stirkland, who had married Elizabeth the general heir of Ralph D' Aincourt. This is evident from an escutcheon cut in stone on the west side of the tower, and hung cornerwise, D' Aincourt quartering Stirkland, three escalop shells, the crest on a close helmet a full topt holly-bush. The same are the arms of the family at this time, and this has been their chief residence ever since.
Before you leave Kendal visit the Castle Law-Hill; this is an artificial mount, that overlooks the town and faces the castle, and surpasses it in antiquity, being one of those hills called Laws, where in ancient times distributive justice was administered. From its present appearance it seems to have been converted to different purposes, but though well situated as a watch upon the castle, could never be a proper place to batter it from, as the report goes.
To Lancaster, by Burton, 22 miles, observe before you reach Burton, Farleton Knot, a naked towering rocky mountain, said to resemble much in form the rock of Gibralter.
Between Burton and Lancaster, see Dunald Mill House, a subterraneous cavern, a river running through it, with many curious petrifactions, in stile like those in Derbyshire, and of the same kind.
Lancaster--

 Finis chartAEque viAEque.
A Comparative View Of The Height Of Mountains Seen In This Tour, With the most remarkable on the Continent, Taken From The Latest Surveys. 
By Mr. Waddington, A. D 1770. 
	 Feet.	 Snowdon in Wales 3456 Whernside 1350 Pendle Hill 1137 Pennygant 1310 Ingleborough 1329	
By Donald. 
 Helvellyn 3324 Skiddaw 3270 Cross Fell 3390 Saddleback 3048	
In North Briton. Pennant's Tour in Scotland, 1769. 
	 Feet.	 Ben Lomond 3240 Benevish 4350 Ben-y-bourd, still higher Laghin-y-gair.		 Benwewish		
 These last three Mountains are never without Snow.
By M. T. Bourrit. 
 Lake of Geneva at the lower passage of the Rhone 1194 Summit of Dole, the highest mountain of Jura 5400 Valley of Chamouni, in Savoy 3363 Ridge de Breven, a Glacier in the valley of Chamouni 8847 Valley of Mountainvert, in Savoy 5595 Abbey of Sixt, ibid.	 2391 Summit of Grenier 8346 Summit of Grenairon 8874 Summit of Buct 9945 Mount Blanc 15243 Mount AEtna 12000	
 Heights above the level of the Ocean.
	 Feet.	 Highest part of the Table, at the Cape of Good Hope 3459 Pike Rucio, in the island of Madeira 5067 Pike Teneriffe 13197 The same according to Dr. Heberden in Madeira 15396 Summit of Cotopaxi, in the province of Quito, according to Don Antonio de Ulloa 19929 Cayambour under the equator 18000 Chimboraco 19929 Perchincha 14580 Carason 14820	
From the survey of mountains it appears that Snowdon is the highest in South Britain, yet below the point of permanent snow. It has been observed by the French academicians, that amongst the Cordilieras, in the province of Quito, Petchincha, and Carason are the highest accessible mountains, and that all of greater height are vested with eternal snow.
On the Glaciers snow is permanent at a much inferior height, and where the sun's rays fall more oblique, less height is found the boundary between temporary and eternal snow. But no mountain in South Britain touches the region of barreness, that intervenes between the limits of vegetation and perpetual snow. Sheep pasture the summits of shaggy Snowdon, green Helvellyn, and purple Skiddaw: Barreness only prevails where rock and precipice, the invincible obstacles to vegetation, oppose themselves.
Roads From Lancaster to the Lakes. 
 Miles Lancaster( Longovicum, Notit. Imper.) 3 Hest Bank 9 Over Lancaster Sands( Morecambe, Ptol.) to Carter House 2 Cartmel church-town, or Flookborough 2 Holker Gate 3 Over Ulverston sands to Carter House 1 Ulverston 12 Dalton, Furness abbey, and back to Ulverston 4 Penny Bridge 2 Lowick Bridge Or 5 from Ulverston to Lowick Bridge 2  Through Nibthwaite, to Coniston Water Foot 6 Coniston Water Head 3 Hawkshead 5 To Ambleside Or 3 to the Ferry on Windermere 1 Bowness across the Windermere	
 7 Ambleside,( Amboglana, Notit. Imper. Dictis, Horsley) See the water-fall in the groves.	 2 Rydal See the water-fall above the hall, and cascade in th summer-house.	 2 Grasmere 2  Dunmail Raise-stones 3  Dale Head See the general view of Thrilmere; 4  Castle Rigg See the grand view of the vale of Keswick.	 1 Keswick( Derventione, Raven. Chor.) 3 Lowdore water-fall 1 Grange 1 Bowdar Stone, Castle Hill 2  Rosthwaite 2  Seathwaite See black-lead or wad mines.	 9  Keswick 8 Down Bassenthwaite Water, by Bowness, Bradness, Scareness to Armathwaite.	 9 Up the other side of the lake to Keswick.	 5 Gasgadale 3 Buttermere 6 Down Crummock Water to Lorton	
 7  Keswick 4 Threskield 6 Whitbarrow See the Roman encampment 1 Penruddock 6  Penrith( Bereda, Rav. Chorog. Voreda, Anton. Iter.) 5 Dunmallet at the foot of Ulls Water, and Pooly Bridge 9 Water Millock, Gowbarrow Park Airy Bridge, to the head of Ulls Water See the water-fall in Gowbarrow Park 9 Ambleside Or 14 to Penrith 10  by Lowther, Askham, and Brampton to Haws Water 15 From the head of Haws Water through Long Sledale to Kendal Or 5 to Shap, by Rosgill and Shap abbey 7 Hawse Foot 8 Kendal( Concangium, Not. Imp.) 10 Down the east side of Kent to Levins Park, and return to Kendal by Sizergh 11 Burton in Kendal( Coccium, Rav. Chor.) 11 Lancaster	
 Finis.

Errata.

Page 17 line 19 for Lonovices, read Longovices. p .21 l. I for fran, r. front. p .27 l. 13 for amaple, r. ample. p .31 l .3 for appearing, r. appears in. p .44 l .16 for fore-ground, r. far ground. p .45 l. 2 for upper end, r. At the upper end. p .47 l .2 r. is at the other end. p .48 l .18 for wonderful, r. wonderfully. p .52 l .2 for conceal, r. concealed. p .58 l. 1 for it, r. in. p .61 l .7 for form, r. from. p .85 l .21 for falanches, r. avelenches. p .86 l .6 r. noblest pastoral stile. p. 96 l .17 dele and the rectory of Crosthwaite. p .117 l .21 for variegating r. vegetating. p .140 l .17 r. and Mellbreak, two spiral hills. p .141 l .18 for sevated. r. serrated. p .177 l .18, for Penrish, r. Penrith. p. 188 l .11 for Strikland, r. Stirkland.

