

From Garstang to Lancaster there is little change in the landscape. It still continues bleak and unpleasant. But as we now approached the mountains, every object began to proclaim the rugged scenes, into which we were entering. The country we now traversed, may be called a kind of connecting thread: itself of an uncharacterized species, striking us with no determined features. It has neither the grandeur of the mountain scene; nor the chearfulness of the sylvan: what wood there is, is poor, and shrivelled. For we now skirted the bay of Cartmel, and the sea-air having caught the trees, had impoverished their foliage, stinted their growth, and destroyed their very form, with unusual rigour.
At a mile's distance Lancaster Castle rises to view. It's lofty situation, it's massy towers, and extensive buildings( for it is connected with the church) give an air of grandeur to it's appearance: but as parts are neither well shaped, nor well combined, it is but an indifferent object from any point. On the spot, the most beautiful part is a noble front; which, with it's other grand appendages, afford sufficient matter for the curiosity of an antiquarian.
On the other side of the town the River Lune, which is a noble piece of water, when the tide is full, sufficiently adorns the landscape.
But here the Lune is a busy, noisy scene, banked with quays; covered with shipping; and resounding with nautic clamour. Far otherwise is it's passage, a few miles above, through the vale of Londsdale; where quietly, and unobserved, it winds around projecting rocks-- forms circling boundaries to meadows, pastured with cattle-- or passes through groves and thickets, which, in fabulous times, might have been the haunt of wood-gods. In one part, taking a sudden turn it circles a little, delicious spot, forming it into a peninsula, called vulgarly, the wheel of Lune. Here once dwelt an ancient hermit; where his eyes saw nothing, nor wished to see any thing, except the sweet vale, in which he lived.
From the castle-hill, or rather from the church-yard, we had a very extensive view, composed of the grandest objects. Along the meadows below, the River Lune, now an estuary, and adorned with a variety of coasting vessels,( lessening to the eye, through it's several reaches,) hastens to the sea. In a mile or two, it enters the bay of Cartmel; which filled with the tide, presents a noble extent of water, ten or twelve miles across, bounded by the mountains of Furness; which extend through vast space; and then circling the head of the bay, form many a shooting promontory, and many a winding shore.
This extension of wild country we looked at with regret, knowing the many noble scenes it contained, which we had not had time to visit. We were obliged to rest satisfied with forming imaginary pictures among the blue mists of the mountains. Our guide, an unlettered swain, pointed out, in the broad dialect of his country, the several spots-- where the ruins of Furness Abbey lay sequestered in a lowly vales-- where, far to the west, Peel Castle, running boldly out into the water, commanded the entrance of the bay-- where, deep beneath those purplish mountains, the lake of Coniston occupied a valley six miles in length-- where Holker Hall; and Bardsey; and Conished, founded on the site of an ancient priory; and many other places of renowned situation, were all surrounded with scenes of grandeur; and each, as far as we could judge from our intelligence, with scenes peculiar to itself.
From Lancaster, in our rout to Kendal, the country, every step, becomes more characteristic. High, shelving grounds arise on the right; and on the left, at every opening, we have different views of the bay of Cartmel, and of the mountains of Furness. The fore-ground is every where adorned with large, detached stones; which indicate the rocks we approach.
A little beyond Burton we left the great road and took a circuit of two or three miles to see the country about Milthorp, and Levens.
Cartmel Bay branches here into a creek; on the eastern side of which lies Milthorp; a little coasting-port-town; and near it Dalham Tower, in a pleasant park, defended by a hill from the sea-air. All around we have beautiful views, consisting of woody sore-grounds, and of distances composed of different parts of this little estuary, and it's appendant mountains.
As we proceeded higher up the creek, the views, increased in beauty. About Levens, a seat of the early of Suffolk, there is a happy combination of every thing that is lovely and great in landscape. It stands at the head of the creek, upon the Kenet, a wild romantic stream, which rushes into the tide, a little below. The house, incompassed with hilly grounds, is well screened from the pernicious effects of the sea-air. But we did not ride up to it. The woods with which it abounds, we were told, grow luxuriantly; and the views at hand are as pleasing, as those at a distance, are great; which consist of a lengthened beach of sand along the creek; and of Whitbarrow Cragg, a rough, and very picturesque promontory; with other high lands, shooting into the bay.
Among the beautiful objects of distance, we consider a winding sand-beach, especially when seen from a woody fore-ground. It's hue, amid the verdure of foliage, is a pleasant, chastising tint. When the tide flows, the sands change their appearance, and take the still more pleasing form of a noble lake.
Levens is at present in a neglected state: but is certainly capable of being made equal to almost any scene in England.
From hence we proceeded to Kendal; situated in a wild, unpleasant country, which contains no striking objects; and cannot be formed into any of those pleasing combinations, which constitute a picture. Here and there a view may be found; though but seldom. The castle, which is a mere ruin, is in some situations, especially near the bridge, a good object.
Between Kendal and Ambleside, the wood increases in grandeur; but the scenery is still undetermined. The whole is a sort of confused greatness.
As we descend to the left, we approach Windermere, where a different species of country succeeds. The wild mountains, which were so ill-massed, and of a kind so unaccommodating to landscape, are left behind; and the road dips into a lovely sylvan scene, leading interchangeably through close groves, under wooded hills, and along the banks of the lake.
Sect. Vi.

We had now arrived on the confines of those romantic scenes, which were the principal inducement to this tour. Here therefore we proposed to make some pause; and pay a little more attention to the country, than a hasty passage through it, would allow.
But to render a description of these scenes more intelligible; and to shew more distinctly the sources of that kind of beauty, with which they abound; it may be proper, before we examine the scenes themselves, to take a sort of analytical view of the materials, which compose them-- mountains-- lakes-- broken grounds-- wood-- rocks-- cascades-- vallies-- and rivers.
With regard to mountains, it may be first premised, that, in a picturesque view, we consider them only as distant objects; their enor - mous size disqualifying them for objects at hand. In the removed part of a picture therefore, the mountain properly appears; where it's immensity, reduced by distance, can be taken in by the eye; and it's monstrous features, losing their deformity, assume a softness which naturally belongs not to them.
I would not however be understood to mean, that a mountain is proper only to close an extended view. It may take it's station in a second, or third distance with equal propriety. And even on a fore-ground, a rugged corner of it's base may be introduced; tho it's upper regions aspire far beyond the limits of an picture.
Having thus premised the station, which a mountain properly occupies in landscape, we shall now examine the mountain itself; in which, four things particularly strike us-- it's line-- the objects, which adorn it's surface-- it's tints-- and it's light and shade.
The beauty of a distant mountain in a great measure, depends on the line it traces along the sky; which is generally of a lighter hue. The pyramidal shape, and easy flow of an irregular line, will be found in the mountain, as in other delineations, the truest source of beauty.
Mountains therefore rising in regular, mathematical lines, or in whimsical, grotesque shapes, are displeasing. Thus Burnswark, a mountain on the southern border of Scotland; Thorp Cloud, near Dovedale in Derbyshire, especially when seen from the garden at Ilam; and a mountain in Cumberland, which from it's peculiar appearance in some situations, takes the name of Saddle Back, all form disagreeable lines. And thus many of the pointed summits of the Alps are objects rather of singularity, than of beauty. Such forms also as suggest the idea of a lumpish heaviness are disgusting-- round, swelling forms, without any break to disincumber them of their weight.
Indeed a continuity of line without a break, whether it be concave, straight, or convex, will always displease, because it wants variety; unless indeed it be well contrasted with other forms. The effect also of a broken line is bad, if the breaks are regular.
The objects, which cover the surface of mountains, are wood, rocks, broken ground, heath, and mosses of various hues.
Ovid has very ingeniously given us the furniture of a mountain in the transformation of Atlas.
-- Jam barba, comaeque In sylvas abeunt; juge sunt humerique, manusque: Quod caput ante fuit, summo est in monte cacumen: Ossa lapis siunt.--
His hair and beard become trees, and other vegetable substance; his bones, rocks; and his head, and shoulders, summits, and promontories. -- But to describe minutely the parts of a distant object( for we are considering a mountain in this light) would be to invert the rules of perspective, by making that distinct, which should be obscure. I shall consider therefore all that variety, which covers the surface of distant mountains, as blended together in one mass; and made the stratum of those tints, which we often find playing upon them.
These tints, which are the most beautiful ornaments of the mountain, are of all colours; but the most prevalent are yellow, and purple. We can hardly consider blue as a mountain-tint. It is the mere colour of the intervening air-- the hue, which naturally invests all distant objects, as well as mountains. The late Dr. Brown, author of the Estimate, in a description, which he printed, of the lake of Keswick, very justly calls these tints the yellow streams of light, the purple hues, and misty azure of the mountains. They are rarely permanent; but seem to be a sort of floating, silky colours-- always in motion-- always in harmony-- and playing with a thousand changeable varieties into each other. They are literally colours dipped in heaven.
The variety of these tints depends on many circumstances-- the season of the year-- the hour of the day-- a dry, or moist atmosphere. The lines and shapes of mountains( features strongly marked) are easily caught and retained: but these meteor-forms, this rich fluctuation of airy hues, offer such a profusion of variegated splendor, that they are continually illuding the eye with breaking into each other; and are lost, as it endeavours to retain them. This airy colouring, tho in sunshine it appears most brilliant; yet in some degree it is generally found in those mountains, where it prevails.
In the late voyages round the world, published by Dr. Hawksworth, we have an account of the great beauty of the colouring observed on the peak of Teneriffe. " It's appearance at" sun-set, says the author, was very sriking. When the sun was below the horizon, and the rest of the island appeared of a deep black; the mountain still reflected his rays, and glowed with a warmth of colouring, which no painting can express."
The rays of the sun, which are the cause of all colour, no doubt, produce these tints to the eye; yet we must believe there is something peculiar in the surfaces of some mountains, which dispose them to reflect the rays with such variety of tints. On many mountains these appearances are not observable; and where the surface is uniform, the tint will be so likewise. " The effect in question, says Mr. Lock, remarking on this passage, is very familiar to me. I saw it almost every evening in Savoy, when the sun shone. It is only on the tops of the highest mountains, that the effect is perfect. Mount Blanc being covered with the purest snow, and having no tint of it's own, was often of the brightest rose-colour."
Having thus given the mountain a line; filled it with objects; and spread over it a beau - tiful assemblage of tins; it remains lastly to throw the whole into light and shade.-- He who would study light and shade, must repair to the mountains. There he will see their most magnificent effects.
In every object we observe a double effect of illumination, that of the parts, and that of the whole. In a building the cornices, the pilasters, and other ornaments, are set off, in the language of art, with light and shade. Over this partial effect are spread the general masses. It is thus in mountains.
Homer, who had a genius as picturesque as Virgil,( tho he seems to have known little of the art of painting) was struck with two things in his views of mountains-- with those cavities and projections, which abound upon their surfaces-- and with what he calls their shadowing forms. Of the former, he takes notice, when he speaks of a single mountain; of the latter, when he speaks of mountains in combination. Now it is plain, that in both these cases he was pleased with the effect of light and shade. In one the partial effect is marked: in the other, the general.
Under the first idea he speaks of Mount Olympus, which he calls πολυπτυχα, or many vallied. Il. 8. 411. Under the second, he speaks of that chain of mountains, which separate Phthia from the southern parts of Greece;
-- πολλα μεταξυ-- ουρεα τε σχιοεντα
Many, shadowing mountains intervene.
The cavities which he observed, and which are seen only from their being the deep recesses of shade, together with the rocks, and little projections, which are visible only from catching a stronger ray of light, contribute to produce the partial effect-- that richness, and variety on the sides of distant mountains, which would otherwise be a display of flat, fatiguing surface. The objects themselves are formless, and indistinct; yet, by presenting different surfaces for the light to reflect on, the rich and variegated effect, here mentioned, is produced.
The grand masses are formed by one mountain's over-shadowing another-- by the sun's turning round some promontory-- or by the transverse position of mountains; in all which cases the shadow falls broad and deep-- sweeps over all the smaller shades, to which it still, gives a deeper tinge; and unites the whole in one great effect.
It is an agreeable amusement to attend these vast shadows in their slow, and solemn march over the mountains-- to observe, how the morning sun sheds only a faint catching light upon the summits of the hills, through one general mass of hazy shade-- in a few hours how all this confusion is dissipated-- how the lights and shades begin to break, and separate, and take their form and breadth-- how deep and determined the shadows are at noon-- how fugitive and uncertain, as the sun declines; till it's fires, glowing in the west, light up a new radiance through the landscape; and spread over it, instead of sober light and shade, all the colours of nature, in one bright, momentary gleam.
It is equally amusing to observe the various shapes, which mountains assume through all this variety of illumination; rocks, knolls, and promontories, taking new forms; appearing, and disappearing, as the sun veers round; whose radiance, like varnish on a picture,( if I may use a degrading comparison,) brings out a thousand objects unobserved before.
To these more permanent effects of illumination may be added another species, which arises from accident-- I mean those partial, flitting shades, which are occasioned by floating clouds. These may sometimes produce a good effect; but they contribute as often to disturb the repose of a landscape. To painters however they are of great use, who are frequently obliged, by an untoward subject, to take the advantage of every probability to produce an effect.
Sect. Vii.

Having thus considered the chief circumstances, which occur in distant mountains, let us now inlarge our view, and take in the lake, which makes the next considerable part of this romantic country.
The fen, the pool, and the lake would present very different ideas, tho magnitude were out of the question.
The fe is a plashy inundation, formed on a flat-- without depth-- without lineal boundary-- of ambiguous texture-- half water-- and half land-- a sort of vegetable fluid.
The pool is a collection of the soakings of some common; or the reservoir of the neighbouring ditches, which deposit in it's ouzy bed the soid of the country, clay, or mud; and give a correspondent tinge to the water.
In some things the fen and the pool agree. They both take every thing in, and let nothing out. Each of them is in summer a sink of putrefaction; and the receptacle of all those unclean, misshapen forms in animal life, which breed and batten in the impurities of stagnation;
Where putrefaction into life ferments, And breathes destructive myriads.
Very different is the origin of the lake. It's magnificent, and marble bed, formed in the caverns and deep recesses of rocky mountains, received originally the pure pellucide waters of some rushing torrent, as it came first from the hand of nature-- arrested it's course, till the spacious, and splendid bason was filled brimfull; and then discharged the stream, unsullied, and undiminished, through some winding vale, to form other lakes, or increase the dignity of some imperial river. Here no impurities find entrance, either of animal, or of vegetable life:
-- Non illic canna palustris, Nec steriles ulvae, nec acuta cuspide junci.
From the brisk circulation of fluid through these animated bodies of water, a great master of nature has nobly styled them, living lakes:
-- Speluncae Vivique lacus.--
and indeed nothing, which is not really alive, deserves the appellation better. For besides the vital stream, which principally feeds them, they receive a thousand little gurgling rills, which trickling through a thousand veins, give life, and spirit to every part.
The principal incidents observable in lakes, are, their line of boundary-- their islands-- and the different appearances of the surface of the water.
The line of boundary is very various. Sometimes it is boldly broken by a projecting promontory-- sometimes indented by a creek-- sometimes it undulates by an irregular shore-- and sometimes swells into a winding bay. In each of these circumstances it is susceptible of beauty; in all, it certainly deserves attention: for as it is of course so conspicuous a boundary, that the least harshness in it is discernible. I have known many a good landscape injured by a bad water boundary.
This line, it may be further observed, varies under different circumstances. When the eye is placed upon the lake, the line of boundary is a circular thread, with little undulation; unless when some promontory of more than usual magnitude shoots into the water. All smaller irregularities are lost. The particular beauty of it under this circumstance, consists in the opposition between such a thread, and the irregular line formed by the summits of the mountains.
But when the eye is placed on the higher grounds, above the level of the lake, the line of boundary takes a new form; and what appeared to the levelled eye a circular thread, becomes now an undulating line, projecting, and retiring more or less, according to the degree of the eye's elevation. The circular thread was indebted for it's principal beauty to contrast: but this, like all other elegant lines, has the additional beauty of variety.
And yet, in some cases, the levelled eye has the advantage of the elevated one. The line, which forms an acute angle from the higher situation, may be softened, when seen from the water, into an easy curve.
The islands fall next under our view. These are either beauty, or a deformity to the lake; as they are shaped, or stationed.
If the island be round, or of any other regular form; or if the wood upon it be thick and heavy( as I have observed some planted with a close grove of Scotch fir) it can never be an object of beauty. At hand, it is a heavy lump: at a distance, a murky spot.
Again, if the island,( however beautifully shaped, or planted;) be seated in the centre of a round lake; in the focus of an oval one; or in any other regular position; the beauty of it is lost, at least in some points of view.
But when it's lines, and shape are both irregular-- when it is ornamented with ancient oak, rich in foliage, but light and airy-- and when it takes some irregular situation in the lake; then it is an object truly beautiful-- beautiful in itself, as well as in composition. It must however be added, that it would be difficult to place such an object in any situation, that would be equally pleasing to every stand.
The surface of the lake offers itself last to observation. The several incidents, which arise here, are all owing to the sky, and the disposition of the water to receive it's impression.
That the sky is the great regulator of the colour of the water, is known to all artists.
Olli caeruleus supra caput astitit imber, Noctem hyememque ferens: et inhorruit unda tenebris.
And again
 Jamque rubescebat radiis mare, et athere ab alto Aurora in roseis fulgebat lutea bigis.
The effect indeed holds universallyy; as water in all cases, exposed to the sky, will act as a mirror to it.
In the darkness of a brooding storm, we have just seen, the whole body of the water will be dark: inhorruit unda tenebris.
In clear, and windy weather, the breezy ruffled lake, as Thomson calls it, is a shattered mirror: It reflects the serenity; but reflects it partially. The hollow of each wave is commonly in shadow, the summit is tipped with light. The light or shadow therefore prevails, according to the position of the waves to the eye: and at a distance, when the summits of the waves, agreeably to the rules of perspective, appear in contact, the whole surface in that part will be light.
But when the sky is splendid, and at the same times calm, the water( being then a perfect mirror,) will glow all over with correspondent tints; unless other reflections, from the objects around, intervene, and form more vivid pictures.
Often you will see a spacious bay, screened by some projecting promontory, in perfect repose; while the rest of the lake, more pervious to the air, is crisped over by a gentle ripple.
Sometimes also, when the whole lake is tranquil, a gentle perturbation will arise in some distant part, from no apparent cause, from a breath of air, which nothing else can feel, and creeping softly on, communicate the tremulous shudder with exquisite sensibility over half the surface. In this observation I do little more than translate from Ovid:
-- Exhorruit, aequoris instar, Quod fremit, exigua cum summum stringitur aura.
No pool, no river-bay, can present this idea in it's utmost purity. In them every crystalline particle is set, as it were, in a socket of mud. Their lubricity is lost. More or less, they all flow cum gurgite flavo. But the lake, like Spencer's fountain, which sprang from the limpid tears of a nymph,
-- is chast, and pure, as purest snow, Ne lets her waves with any filth be dyed.
Refined thus from every obstruction, it is tremblingly alive all over: the merest trifle, a frisking fly, a falling leaf, almost a sound alarms it,
-- that sound, Which from the mountain, previous to the storm, Rolls over the muttering earth, disturbs the flood, And shakes the forest-leaf without a breath.
This tremulous shudder is sometimes even still more partial: It will run in lengthened parallels, and separate the reflections upon the surface, which are lost on one side, and taken up on the other. This is perhaps the most picturesque form, which water assumes; as it affords the painter an opportunity of throwing in those lengthened lights and shades, which give the greatest variety and clearness to water.
There is another appearance on the surfaces of lakes, which we cannot account for on any principle either of optics, or of perspective. When there is no apparent cause in the sky, the water will sometimes appear dappled with large spots of shade. It is possible these patches may have connection with the bottom of the lake; as naturalists suppose, the shining parts of the sea are occasioned by the spawn of fish: but it is more probable, that in some way, they are connected with the sky, as they generally esteemed in the country to be a weather-gage. The people will often say," It will be no" hay-day to day, the lake is full of shades."-- I never myself saw this appearance; o I might be able to give a better account of it: but I have heard it so often taken notice of; that I suppose there is at least some ground for the observation. Tho, after all, I think it probably these shades may be owing only to floating clouds.
From this great variety, which the surfaces of lakes assume, we may draw this conclusion, that the painter may take great liberties, in point of light and shade, in his representation of water. It is, in many cases, under no rule, that we are acquainted with; or under rules so lax, that the imagination is left very much at large.
On the subject of lakes, I have only farther to add, that many bodies of water, under this denomination, are found upon the summits of lofty mountains. In this situation they are commonly made basons; or reservoirs; and want the pleasing accompaniments, which adorn the lower lakes. Lakes of this kind are a collection of springs; and discharge themselves generally from their elevated stations in cascades.
Sect. Viii.

We have now made a considerable advance towards a landscape. The sky is laid in; a mountain fills the offskip; and a lake, with it's accompaniments, takes possession of a nearer distance. Nothing but a fore-ground is wanting; and for this we have great choice of objects-- broken ground-- trees-- rocks-- cascades-- and vallies.
In a distance the ruling character is tenderness; which on a fore-ground, gives way to what the painter calls force, and richness. Force arises from a violent opposition of colour, light, and shade: richness consists in a variety of parts, and glowing tints. In some degree, richness is found in a distance; but never, united with force: for in a distance; tho the lights may be strong, and the parts varied; yet the shades and tints will ever be faint, and tender.
In the mean time, this opposition on the fore-ground, violent as it is, must always be subject to the ruling masses of light and shade, and colouring, which harmonize the whole.
The effect of this harmony is breadth, or repose. It's opposite is flutter, and confusion.
It appears therefore, that the management of fore-grounds is a matter of great nicety. In them a very contradiction must be reconciled: breadth and repose, which consist in uniting the parts; must be made to agree with force and richness, which consist in violently breaking them. And what adds to the difficulty, the eye, brought thus on the spot, is hurt by the minutest defect. Whereas, at a distance, an irregular dash of the pencil, if it be not one thing, may be conceived to be another: obscurity is there a source of beauty. -- Hence it is, that many great masters, who can throw a distance into a pleasing confusion, and give it the effect of nature; have failed in exercising their art on a fore-ground.
Having premised thus much with regard to fore-grounds in general, let us now examine the fore-grounds, which are presented to us in this very picturesque country.
 Broken grounds are the first objects of our attention. Here they abound in every shape. The painter will easily find, either some rough knoll, whose parts are ample-- the sloping corner of a hill, perhaps worn by a mountain-torrent-- a rugged road, winding through the chasm of a rifted promontory-- or some other part of nature equally grand and picturesque.
If he chuse to adorn his fore-ground with wood( and who does not?) he will find it in some parts of this country in a tolerable style of greatness. But, in general, the old timber is decayed or cut down; and that sort of wood incouraged, which is the most profitable-- such wood, as, in a course of time, is turned into charcoal. It has, in some degree, the effect of better trees in a distance; but it is very deficient, when we call for an ancient oak to give the fore - ground a grandeur equal to the scene-- when we want the magnificence of it's shadowing form to mantle over the vacant corner of a landscape-- when we wish it to hid some heavy promontory; or to scatter a few loose branches over some ill-shaped mountain-line-- when it's massy foliage is necessary to give depth to shade-- it's twisted bole, covered with grey moss, to oppose the vivid green in it's neighbourhood-- or, lastly, it's warm autumnal tint to contrast the colder hues of distance. In all these cases a deficiency of forest-wood is sometimes regretted in the scenery before us; but not often: and where it is, the loss is easily supplied by other objects; among which rocks are the principal: and these, when ornamented with wood, tho of a smaller size, have generally the effect of the most luxuriant foliage.
 Rocks differ in surface; general form; and colour.
The rock naturally wears that smooth weather-beaten surface, which time gives it through a succession of ages. But rocks, firm as they are, are subject to change. Springs undermine them: torrents wash the earth from around them: frosts loosen them; and sometimes they are torn by storms and earthquakes. Under these circumstances, when large masses fall away, the rock exhibits a fractured surface; which in general has a better effect, than the smooth one. Nature, in these instances, may be said to retouch her compositions: the fractured parts are larger and sharper; and better adapted to receive either smart, catching light; or a body of light and shade. -- An humble imitation of the surfaces of fractured rocks is sometimes exhibited in large coals: they may at least assist the imagination of the painter.
With regard to the general form of rocks, both species, the smooth, and the fractured, have equal variety. Both have their bold projections-- both hang alike over their bases-- are rifted into chasms-- and shoot sometimes into horizontal, and sometimes into diagonal strata.
The natural colour of rocks is either grey, or red. We have of each kind in England; and both are beautiful: but the grey rock,( which is the common species in this scenery) makes the finer contrast with the foliage either of summer, or of autumn.
I call red, and grey the natural colours of rocks; but more properly they are the ground only of a variety of tints. These tints arise from weeds, mosses, and lychens of various kinds, which uniting together on the surface of a rock, often make a rich, and very harmomonious assemblage of colouring; and the painter, who does not attend to these minutiae( we are considering fore-grounds) loses half the beauty of the original.
Among these lychens, the white species is the least pleasing. When mixed with other tints, it may form an agreeable contrast: and even, when it borrows no aid of this kind, if it be sparingly, and happily introduced, it may add a beauty to the natural colour of the grey rock, by giving it the brilliancy of a few sharp touches. But when it prevails; and spreads, like a bald leprous scab, over a whole surface; it's mealy hue is very disgusting, unless it be thrown into shadow, or supported by some mass of foliage, or other vivid tint in contact with it.
Besides the species of rocks just described, there is another, called the cragg; which conveys the idea of a rock roughly pounded. With these shattered fragments whole sides of mountains are often covered; down which they appear continually to shiver. This species is very inferior to former. It wants that breadth of surface, which gives dignity to an object. In a distance indeed, which melts the fragments into one mass, the effect is good: but in the situation, in which we are now considering rocks, as the appendages of a fore-ground, the cragg is meanly circumstanced.
The cascade, which is the next object of our observation, may be divided into the broken, and the regular fall.
The first belongs most properly to the rock; whose projecting fragments, impeding the water, break it into pieces-- dash it into foam-- and give it all the spirit, and agitation, which that active element is capable of receiving. -- Happy is the pencil, which can seize the varieties, and brilliancy of water under this circumstance.
In the regular fall the water meets no obstruction; but pours down, from the higher grounds to the lower, in one splendid sheet.
Each kind hath it's beauties; but, in general, the broken fall is more adapted to a small body of water; and the regular to a large one. The small body of water has nothing to recommend it, but it's variety and bustle: where-as the large body has a dignity of character to maintain. To fritter it in pieces would be to destroy in a degree the grandeur of it's effect. Were the Niagara thus broken, at least if some considerable parts of it were not left broad and sheety, it might be a grand scene of confusion; but it could not be that vast, that uniform, and simple object, which is most capable of expressing the idea of greatness.
As there a few considerable rivers in the romantic country, we are now examining, the most beautiful cascades,( which are innumerable) are generally of the broken kind. The regular falls( of which also there are many) are objects of little value. Tho they are sometimes four of five hundred feet in height; yet they appear only like threads of silver at a distance; and like mere spouts at hand; void both of grandeur, and variety. -- And yet, in heavy rains, some of them must be very noble, if we may judge from their channels, which often shew great marks of violence. -- But I was never fortunate enough to see any of them in these moment of wildness.
These two kinds of cascades, the broken, and the regular, may be combined. If the weight of water be small, it is true, it will admit only the broken fall: but if it be large, it may with propriety admit a combination of both: and these combinations may be multiplied into each other with endless variety.
The regular fall admits also another mode of variety by forming itself into what may be called the successive fall; in which the water, instead of making one continued shoot, falls through a succession of different stories. Of this kind are many of the mountain-cascades in this country, which are often very beautiful; especially where the stages are deranged; and the water seeks it's way from one stage to another.
This is the species of cascade, which was the great object of imitation in all the antiquated water-works of the last age. Our fore-fathers admired the successive fall; and, agreeably to their awkward mode of imitation, made the water descend a regular flight of stone-stairs.
Before we conclude the subject of cascades, it may be observed, that, as in other objects of beauty, so in this, proportion must be a regulating principle. I shall not be so precise as to say, what is the exact proportion of an elegant cascade. Nor is it necessary. The eye will easily see the enormity of disproportion, where it exists in any great degree: and that is enough. Thus when a mountain-cascade falls four or five hundred feet, and is perhaps scarce two yards broad; every eye must see the disproportion: as it will also, when the whole breadth of some large river falls only two or three feet. Both would be more beautiful, if their falls held a nearer proportion to their quantities of water.
The last species of fore-grounds are vallies; with regard to which it must be remarked first, that narrow contracted vallies only are meant. The open valley must class itself among objects of distant scenery.
 Let it be observed, that the terms vale, and valley; denote universally, through this work, the greater, and smaller scenes of the same kind. I consider valley as the diminutive of vale.
It must secondly be remarked, that even contracted valleys are not purely of the nature of fore-grounds, but participate of distance. One side-screen must necessarily be a little removed, if you would give your scenery the advantage of perspective.
These things being premised, we may consider the valley as a species of fore-ground; the ingredients of which Spencer hath given us in very few words.
Through woods, and mountains wild they came at last Into a pleasant dale, that lowly lay Betwixt two hills, whose high heads over placed, The valley did with cool shade overcast: Through midst thereof a little river rolled.
These ingredients admit great variety in composition. The sides of the valley may be high, or low; rocky, or woody; smooth, or full of jutting promontories: and these variations again may play into each other with a thousand interchanges.
When we find a concurrence of beautiful circumstances in these scenes-- when their sides are well proportioned, and picturesquely adorned-- and especially when they are so fortunate as to open on a rich distance; a lake bounded by a rocky mountain; or any other interesting object, they form a landscape of a very pleasing kind.
The rivers also with which these vallies scarce ever fail of being adorned, have the same variety as the hills; and may, now and then, be introduced very happily to assist the fore-ground. They are pure chrystalline streams-- generally sparkling over beds of pebbles-- often tumbling, and foaming over the ledges of rocks-- and forming, through the whole of their course, a continuation of little bustling cascades.
Nearly allied to the contracted valley, is, what in this country, is called a gill; in others, a dell. It is a narrow cleft, winding between two rocky precipices; and overgrown with wood, which closes at the top, and almost excludes the day. Through the bottom foams a torrent. You hear it sounding in it's fall from one rocky stage to another: but it is rarely visible.
These romantic spots are generally impervious. When they are a little more open, so as to allow a narrow foot-path to stray among them, they are the most beloved haunts of solitude and meditation; and of all the parts of this delightful scenery, afford the most refreshing refuge from noon-tide heat.
Such were the scenes the poet panted after, when they drew from his soul, oppressed by the languor of a summer-sun, that ardent aspiration;
-- O quis me gelidis in vallibus Haemi Sistat, et ingenti ramorum protegat umbrâ!
How intimately acquainted with these scenes he was, his own very accurate desriptions shew.
-- Densis hunc frondibus atrum Urget utrimque latus nemoris, medioque fragosus Dat sonitum saxis, et torto vertice torrens.
 Dat sonitum, says this accurate observer of nature; remarking in the expression, that the torrent was an address to the ear, not to the eye.
The contracted valley, we have seen, may open to a distance; but a view into the gill furnishes only a fore-ground. It can only consist of some little sequestered recess-- a few twisted boles-- a cascade sparkling through the trees-- or a translucent pool, formed in the cavity beneath some rock, and just large enough to reflect the hanging wood, which over sha dows it. And yet even on this contracted scale, we have many a beautiful landscape:
-- For nature here Has, with her living colours, formed a scene Which Ruisdael best might rival: crystal lakes, Over which the giant-oak, himself a grove, Flings his romantic branches, and beholds His reverend image in the expanse below. If distant hills be wanting, yet our eye Forgets the want, and with delighted gaze Rests on the lovely fore-ground--
Sect. Ix.

We have now examined the materials, of which the magnificent scenery of this country is composed-- the distant mountain-- the lake-- and the fore-ground: but a few general observations on these materials, as united in composition, may perhaps throw some new and picturesque lights on the whole.
In many countries much grander scenes are exhibited, than these,-- mountains more magnificent, and lakes more extensive: yet, it is probable there are few, in which the several objects are better proportioned; and united with more beauty.
In America the lakes are seas; and the country on their banks, being removed of course to a great distance, can add no accompaniments.
Among the smaller lakes of Italy and Switzerland, no doubt, there are many delightful scenes: but the larger lakes, like those of America, are disproportioned to their accompaniments: the water occupies too large a space, and throws the scenery too much in distance.
The mountains of Sweden, Norway, and other northern regions, are probably rather masses of hideous rudeness, than scenes of grandeur and proportion. Proportion indeed in all scenery is indispensably necessary; and unless the lake, and it's correspondent mountains have this just relation to each other, they want the first principle of beauty.
The value of lake-scenery arises rather from the idea of magnificence, than of variety. The scene is not continually shifting here, as on the banks of a winding river. The lake is so vast, that it stands still, as it were, before the moving eye. Nor is this attended with satiety. A quick succession of imagery is necessary in scenes of less grandeur, where little beauties are easily scanned: but scenes, like these, demand contemplation. These rich volumes of nature, like the works of established authors, will bear a frequent perusal. Contemplation adds to their value.
In the mean time, with all this magnificence and beauty, it cannot be supposed, that every scene, which these countries present, is correctly picturesque. In such immense bodies of rough-hewn matter, many irregularities, and even many deformities, must exist, which a practised eye would wish to correct. Mountains are sometimes crouded-- their sides are often bare, when contrast requires them to be wooded-- promontories form the water-boundary into acute angles-- and bays are contracted into narrow points, instead of swelling into ample basons.
In all these cases the imagination is apt to whisper, What glorious scenes might here be made, if these stubborn materials could yield to the judicious hand of art!-- And, to say the truth, we are sometimes tempted to let the imagination loose among them.
By the force of this creative power an intervening hill may be turned aside; and a distance introduced. -- This ill-shaped moun - tain may be pared, and formed into a better line. -- To that, on the opposite side, a lightness may be given by the addition of a higher summit. -- Upon you bald declivity, which stretches along the lake, may be reared a forest of noble oak; which thinly scattered over the top, will thicken as it descends; and throw it's vivid reflections on the water in full luxuriance.
The line of the water too, which perhaps is straight, the imagination will easily correct. It will bring forward some bold promontory; or open some winding bay.
It will proceed even to the ornaments of art. On some projecting knoll it will rear the majesty of a ruined castle, whose ivyed walls seem a part of the very rock, on which they stand. On a gentle rise, opening to the lake, and half incircled by wood hills, some mouldring abbey may be seated; and far beyond may appear distant objects, under some circumstance of picturesque illumination:
The forest darkening round, and glittering spire.
Thus the imagination will assist those scenes, which, tho replete with beauties beyond it's power to create, may contain deformities, which it might wish to remove. It corrects one part of nature by another; and composes a landscape, as the artist composed his celebrated Venus, by selecting accordant beauties from different originals. Scarce any single archetype is sufficiently correct. Any other idea of improving nature is absurd; and can be adopted only by men of false taste, who imagine they improve her by an addition of heterogeneous decorations.
As to the improvement of such vast scenes as these, it is in every shape, except by a little planting, beyond all power of art. I cannot therefore be understood to suggest improvement here. All we get by imagining, how such a country as this might be improved, is merely a little practice in the rules of picturesque composition.
We may remark further, that the power which the imagination hath over these scenes, is not greater, than the power, which they have over the imagination. No tame country, however beautiful, however adorned, can distend the mind, like this awful, and majestic scenery. The wild sallies of untutored genius often strike the imagination more, than the most correct effusions of cultivated parts. Tho the eye therefore might take more pleasure in a view( considered merely in a picturesque light) when a little adorned by the hand of art; yet I much doubt, whether such a view would have that strong effect on the imagination; as when rough with all it's bold irregularities about it; when beauty, and deformity, grandeur and horror, mingled together, strike the mind with a thousand opposing ideas; and like chymical infusions of an opposite nature, produce an effervescence, which no harmonious mixtures could produce.
Surely there is a hidden power, that reigns' Mid the lone majesty of untamed nature, Controuling sober reason--
Were a lover of nature placed abruptly in the midst of such scenes as these, the effect might be too strong: and this instance, as in others, he might discover the weakness of his first progenitor; in whom, on viewing suddenly a grand landscape, we are told,
So deep the power of those ingredients pierced, Even to the inmost seat of mortal sight 
That Adam now inforced to close his eyes, Sank down, and all his spirits became intranced.
But nature, which brings out the sun through the medium of twilight, hath in this case also provided for the weakness of the visual nerve. These grand scenes are gradually introduced. The idea grows imperceptibly to maturity. The great stones of yesterday become rocks to-day. Hills, in a few stages, are converted into mountains; and we see, now and then, the glimpse of a lake; before the eye is filled with the whole vast, splendid surface of it.
If the imagination be thus fired by these romantic scenes even in their common state, how much more may we suppose it wrought on, when they strike us under some extraordinary circumstance of beauty, or terror-- in the tranquility of a calm, or the agitation of a storm?
Some scenes, particularly of the sylvan kind, are perhaps best suited to a calm. They receive their principal beauty from the richness of the objects; which is improved by chearful and splendid lights.
Other scenes, less inriched by objects, are meagre in a calm, and glaring sunshine. A bright hemisphere only renders their poverty more apparent. To such scenes a storm, which produces sublime ideas by heaving clouds, and bursting lights, gives an adventitious consequence, and leads the eye, in it's pursuit of objects, to the grandeur of the effect.
But there are some scenes in nature, which are adapted to both circumstances-- none more, than the scenery of lakes-- none perhaps so much.
During five days, which we spent among the lakes, we saw one of them only, and that but once, under the circumstance of a perfect calm-- when there was neither wind to ruffle, nor cloud to obscure, the resplendency of the surface-- when we saw the poet's description literally translated--
-- Silet arduus aether: Tum zephyri posuere: premit placida aequora pontus.
If an artificial mirror, a few inches long, placed opposite to a door, or a window, occasions often very pleasing reflections; how noble must be the appearance, when an area of many leagues in circumference, is formed into one vast mirror; and this mirror surrounded by a combination of great, and beautiful objects? The majestic repose of so grand, so solemn, and splendid a scene raises in the mind a sort of enthusiastic calm, which spreads a mild complacence over the breast-- a tranquil pause of mental operation, which may be felt, but not desribed;
-- spread, Into a liquid plain, it stands unmoved, Pure as the expanse of heaven-- And to the fringed bank, with osiers crowned, It's crystal mirror holds--
Other adventitious circumstances, of less value in themselves, but in union very picturesque, add new life, and beauty to so still a scene-- groups of cattle in various parts, driven by the heats of noon, along the shores of the lake-- and fishing-boats extending their nets in dotted circles, and forming tremulous reflections from their flaccid sails.
When we take a view of such a glorious scene in all it's splendor, we regret, that it should ever be deformed by the rough blasts of tempest: and yet I know not, whether, under this latter circumstance, it may not have a still greater power over the imagination. Every little idea is lost in the wild uproar and confusion of such a scene.
Nor is it in this disturbed state, less an object of picturesque beauty. The sky floating with broken clouds-- the mountains half obscured by driving vapours; and mingling with the sky in awful obscurity-- the trees straining in the blast-- and the lake stirred from the bottom, and whitening every rocky promontory with it's foam; are all objects highly adapted to the pencil.
In the midst of the tempest, if a bright sunbeam should suddenly break out; and in Shakespear's language, light up the storm, the scenery of an agitated lake, thus assisted by the powers of contrast, affects both the imagination, and the eye, in a still greater degree. Some broad mountain-side, catching a mass of light, produces an astonishing effect amidst the leaden gloom, which surrounds it. Perhaps a sunbeam, half - suffused in vapour, darting between two mountains, may stretch along the water in a lengthened gleam, just as the skiff passes to receive the light upon it's swelling sail: while the sea-gull, wheeling along the storm, turns it's silvery side, strongly illumined, against the bosom of some lurid cloud; and by that single touch of opposition, gives double darkness to the rising tempest.
Compared with such scenes, how inanimate do the subjects of Canaletti appear!-- how flat his square canals, and formal street-perspective; when opposed to spreading lakes, and sweeping mountains!-- the puny labours of men, to the bold, irregular scenery of nature! Nor can we help regretting the loss of such pictures as might have been produced, if Canaletti's free pencil had been thrown loose in such a country as this.
But these scenes are not only superior to the subjects of Canaletti; but to those of a greater master, the younger Vanderveld. Sea Views, tho grander in some respects, are, on the hole, inferior to the views before us. Their great deficiency is the want of a variety in their accompaniments. One species of them indeed, and but one, is superior to the utmost efforts of the lake-- the segment of some land-locked bay; which, in a storm especially, is a noble subject: the waters are more agitated, and form bolder swells; which, of course, receive grander effects of light. Here too, instead of the dancing skiff, we are presented with the terrors of shipwreck. The beacon also, seated on a bleak eminence, marks the coast with peculiar danger; while the distant port-town, discovered by a gleam of light under the shadowing cliff, makes the scene still more affecting by the exclusion of hope within sight of security.
I have only farther to observe, in general, on the scenes of this romantic country, that they are subject to violent convulsions of various kinds. Every thing, here, is in the grand style. The very elements, when they do mis chief, keep in unison with it, and perform all their operations with an air of dignity.
Upon some of the mountains, particularly on Cross Fell, a blast, called in the country, a helm-wind, will sometimes arise suddenly, of a nature so violent, that nothing can withstand it's force. The experienced mountaineer, as he traverses those wild regions, foreseeing it's approach, throws himself flat upon the ground; and lets it pass over him. It's rage is momentary: and the air instantly settles into it's former calm.
These hurricanes are not uncommon in other mountainous countries. Mr. Misson particularly speaking of the mountains near Inspruck, tells us, that the winds often force their way through their hollow parts, as if through pipes, and raise such furious hurricanes, as will sometimes root up, not only trees; but even rocks.
The lake too is subject to something of the same kind of emotion; which the inhabitants of the country call a bottom-wind. Often, when all is calm, and resplendent around; as the boat is plying it's steady way; the boatman will descry at a distance( happy that it is so) a violent ebullition of the water. He will see it heave and swell; forced upwards by some internal convulsion; and suffering all the agitation of a storm. But as soon as the confined air has spent it's force, the agitated surface immediately subsides.
Of these bottom-winds also we meet with frequent accounts: particularly in some of the Sweedish lakes, which are very subject to them.
Something of this kind, seems to have given Spencer an idea, which he introduces in his idle lake:
The waves come rolling, and the billows roar, Outrageously as they engaged were: But not one puff of wind there did appear.
Often also a vast body of water, collected in the entrails of a mountain, it is said, will force a way through it's side; and rushing down the declivity, take it's course through the valley; where it is not uncommon to see the marks of it's devastation.
The same effects are sometimes produced by water-spouts, which in countries like these, are collected, as at sea, and fall upon mountains.
The avalanche, or fall of snow, is common here too, as in other mountainous countries. Inundations also are occasioned by it's sudden melting.
But the fall of cliffs, and large fragments of mountains, loosened by rain, and frost, produces one of the greatest scenes of terror, which belongs to this romantic country; and to which we are chiefly indebted for that variety of fractured rock, and broken ground, which are among it's greatest ornaments. Virgil has given us a description of this kind in great perfection.
Qualis in Euboico Baiarum litore quondam Saxea pila cadit;----------------- ruinam Prona trahit, penitusque vadis illisa recumbit Miscent se maria,& nigrae attolluntur arenae Tum sonitu Prochyta alta tremit, durumque cubile Inarime, Jovis imperiis, imposta Typhaeo.
The immediate effect is first described
Misent se maria,& nigrae attolluntur arenae
After a solemn pause, the grand ecchoes, and distant repetitions, lengthened out from the rocky scenery around, are nobly introduced.
Tum sonitu Prochyta alta tremit, durumque cubile Inarime, Jovis imperiis, imposta Typhaeo.
Having thus collected a few of those general ideas, with which the scenery of this country abounds, we shall now illustrate them in a tour through some of it's most romantic parts.
Sect. X.

Ambleside is an ordinary village; but delightfully seated. A cove of lofty mountains half incircles it on the north; and the lake of Wynander opens in front; near the shores of which it stands.
The ground between it and the mountains, which are at least two miles distant, is various, broken, and woody. A mountain-torrent, about half a mile from the village, forms a grand cascade; but it was so overgrown with thickets, that we had no point of view to see it from, but the top; which is the most unpicturesque we could have.
From this fall the stream rushes along a narrow valley, or gill, luxuriantly adorned with rock, and wood: and winding through it about a mile, emerges near the head of the lake, into which it enters. This gill was so overgrown with wood, that it appeared almost impervious: but if a path could be carried through it, and the whole a little opened, it might be made very beautiful. A scene in itself so pleasing, with a noble cascade at one end, and an extensive lake at the other, could not fail, to strike the imagination in the most forcible manner.
From Ambleside we set out for Bowness, to take a view of the lake. Part of the road we had traversed, the day before, from Kendal; and were a second time amused by the woody landscape it afforded; and it's sudden, interrupted openings to the lake, before the whole burst of that magnificent scene was presented. -- From the higher grounds, above Bowness, we had an elevated view of its whole extent.
Windermere, or Winander Water, as it is sometimes called, extends from north to south, about twelve or fourteen miles. In breadth, it rarely exceeds two; and is seldom narrower than one. The southern end winds a little towards the west. The northern, and western coasts are wild, and mountainous-- the eastern, and southern are more depressed; in some parts cultivated, in others woody. Opposite to Bowness, the lake is divided into two parts by a cluster of islands; one of which is larger than the rest.
Bowness is the capital port-town on the lake; if we may adopt a dignified style, which the grandeur of the country naturally suggests. It is the great mart for fish, and charcoal; both which commodities are largely imported here; and carried by land into the country. It's harbour is crouded with vessels of various kinds; some of which are used merely as pleasure-boats in navigating the lake. -- In one of these we embarked, and standing out to sea; made for the great island; which we were informed was a very interesting scene.
We soon arrived at it; and landing at the south end, we ordered our boat to meet us at the north point; meaning to traverse it's little boundaries.
A more sequestered spot cannot easily be conceived. Nothing can be more excluded from the noise, and interruption of life; or abound with a greater variety of those circumstances, which make retirement pleasing.
The whole island contains about thirty acres. It's form is oblong: it's shores irregular; retiring into bays, and broken into creeks. The surface too is uneven; and a sort of little Appennine ridge runs through the middle of it; falling down, in all shapes, into the water. -- Like it's great mother-island, the southern part wears a smoother aspect, than the northern, which is broken, and rocky.
Formerly the whole island was one entire grove. At present, it is rather bare of wood; tho there are some large oaks upon it.
One of it's greatest beauties arises from that irregular little Appennine, just mentioned, which extends from one end to the other. This circumstance hides it's insularity, by connecting it with the continent. In every part, except on the high grounds, you stand in an amphitheatre composed of the noblest objects; and the lake performing the office of a sunk fence, the grandeur of each part of the continent is called in, by turns, to aid the insignificance of the island.
The oblong form also of the lake gives the island another great advantage. On both it's sides, the opposite shores of the continent are little more than half a mile distant: but at the northern and southern points there is a large sheet of water. The views therefore, as you walk round, are continually changing through all the varieties of distances; which are still farther improved by a little degree of obliquity, in the position of the island.
He who should take upon him to ornament such a scene as this, would have only to conduct his walk and plantations, so as to take advantage of the grand parts of the continent around him;-- to hide what is offensive-- and, amidst a choice of great and picturesque scenes, to avoid shewing too much. As he would have, at all times, an exuberance of water, he should not be ostentatious in displaying it. It would be a relief to the eye sometimes to exclude it wholly; and to introduce a mere sylvan scene, with distant mountains rising above it. A transient glance of the water, with some well-chosen objects beyond it, would often also have a good effect; and sometimes a grand expansion of the whole. -- Thus the objects around, tho unmanageable in themselves, might be brought under command by the assistance of an insular situation.
With regard to the ornamenting of such a scene, an elegant neatness is all the improver should aim at. Amidst these grand objects of nature, it would be absurd to catch the eye with the affected decorations of art. The simple idea he would desire to preserve, is, what the place itself suggests, a sequestered retreat. The boundaries should in a great measure be thicket-- on the eastern coast especially, which is opposed to the only cultivated part of the country: and if there be any thing in that part worth giving to the eye, it might be given through some unaffected opening.
For thickets, the wild wood of the country would abundantly suffice. It grows luxuriantly, and would soon produce it's effect.
The middle parts of the island, with a few clumps properly disposed, might be neat pasturage, with flocks, and herds; which would contrast agreeably with the rough scenery around.
The house, at present, stands too formally in the middle of the island. It might stand better near the southern promontory. The air of this sweet retreat is said to be very pure.
 Since this view of Windermere island was taken, it hath been under the hands of improvement. The proprietor, I have been told, spent six thousand pounds upon it; with which sum he has contrived to do almost every thing, that one would wish had been left undone. It is now in other hands, which may probably restore it's beauty.
This island belonged formerly to the Philipsons, a family of note in Westmoreland. During the civil wars, two of them, an elder, and a younger brother, served the king. The former, who was the proprietor of it, commanded a regiment: the latter was a major.
The major, whose name was Robert, was a man of great spirit, and enterprize; and for his many feats of personal bravery, had obtained, among the Oliverians of those parts, the appellation of Robin the Devil.
After the war subsided, Col. Briggs, a steady friend to the usurpation, residing at Kendal, under the double character of a leading magistrate( for he was a justice of the peace) and an active commander, held the country in awe. This person having heard, that Major Philpson was at his brother's house on the island in Windermere, resolved, if possible, to seize, and punish a man, who had made himself so particularly obnoxious. With this view he mustered a party, which he thought sufficient; and went himself on the enterprize. How it was conducted, my authority does not inform us-- whether he got together the navigation of the lake, and blockaded the place by sea; or whether, he landed, and carried on his approaches in form. Neither do we learn the strength of the garrison within; nor of the works without: thos every gentleman's house was, at that time, in some degree a fortress. All we learn, is, that Major Philpson endured a seige of eight, or ten days with great gallantry; till his brother, the colonel, hearing of his distress, raised a party, and relieved him.
 Dr Bourn's his. of Westmoreland.
It was now the major's turn to make reprizals. He put himself therefore at the head of a little troop of horse, and rode to Kendal, where Col. Briggs resided. Here being informed, that the colonel was at prayers,( for it was on a sunday morning) he stationed his men properly in the avenues; and himself, armed, roder directly into the church. It is said, he intended to seize the colonel, and carry him off: but as this seems to have been totally impracticable, it is rather probably, that his intention was to kill him on the spot; and in the midst of the confusion, to escape. Whatever his intention was, it was frustrated; for Briggs happened to be elsewhere.
The congregation, as might be expected, was thrown into great confusion on seeing an armed man, on horseback, enter the church; and the major taking the advantage of their astonishment, turned his horse round, and rode quietly out. But having given an alarm, he was presently assaulted as he left the church: and being seized; his girths were cut; and he was unhorsed.
At this instant, his party made a furious attack on the assailants; and the major, killing with his own hand, the man, who had seized him, clapped the saddle, ungirthed as it was, upon his horse; and vaulting into it, rode full speed through the streets of Kendal, calling to his men to follow him; and with his whole party made a safe retreat to his asylum in the lake. -- The action marked the man. Many knew him; and they who did not, knew as well from the exploit, that it could be nobody, but Robin the Devil.-- Such are the calamities of civil war! After the direful effects of public opposition cease; revenge, and private malice long keep alive the animosity of individuals.
Sect. Xi.

Having thus taken a view of a place abounding with so many beauties, we found our bark waiting for us at the northern point; and setting sail, instead of returning to Bowness, we stood for Ambleside. We could have wished to navigate the whole lake; but it was too great an undertaking for measured time; and we contented ourselves with going in quest of the beauties of it's northern division.
As we left the island, the scene opening on every side, we found ourselves surrounded with objects of great magnificence.
On the western coast ran a continuous range of craggy mountains, thinly scattered over with trees, which had formerly overspread it. It is a part of Furness Fell; the whole of which we had before seen, in one vast combination of distant mountains, bounding our view over the bay of Cartmel. The part we now saw stretches about two leagues along the lake.
On the eastern side, we passed several small islands, some of which were well-wooded; others were mere rocks with low, twisted trees bursting from their crevices; all of them probably worth visiting, if our time had allowed. Through the openings of these islands, we had partial views of the eastern coast; till having advanced further through this little archipelago into the body of the lake, the whole eastern skreen opened to the eye-- This side, tho less magnificent than the mountains of Furness on the left, contains however more variety. It is broken into hills; some of which are cultivated, and others covered with wood.
But, on the whole, neither of these side-screens is an object purely picturesque. The western shore is great indeed; but it is an unvaried mass of heavy greatness. The eastern is broken too much, and wants both unity and grandeur. When we rode through it in the morning, it made an admirable fore-ground in almost every part: but we now found it less qualified as a distance.
The side-screens however are the least essential parts of this vast scene. The front is the capital part-- that part, on which the eye immediately settles. It consists of that immense body of barrier mountains, which separate the two counties of Cumberland and Westmoreland; appearing in this view to be drawn up in a sort of tumultuary array, mountain beyond mountain, as far as the eye could reach.
As we advanced in our voyage, this great division of the lake( from the islands to it's northern point,) tho really oblong, assumed the form of a vast circular bason: and the rough mountains, arising round it, appeared, from so splended an area, with new grandeur. Indeed contrast gave an additional force to the character of each.
This great scene however, surveyed thus from a centre, was rather amusing, than picturesque. It was too extensive for the painter's use. A small portion of the circle, reduced to paper, or canvas, could have conveyed no idea; and a large segment would have exceeded all the powers of the pallet.
It is certainly an error in landscape-painting, to comprehend too much. It turns a picture into a map. Nothing is more delusive, than to suppose, that every view, which pleases in nature, will please in painting. In nature, the pleasure arises from the eye's roaming from one passage to another; and making it's remarks on each. In painting,( as the eye is there confined within certain limits,) it arises from seeing some select spot adorned agreeably to the rules of art. And the painter, who wishes to make a pleasing composition, must not include more than he can thus adorn. His fore-ground, and his distance must bear a proportion to each other; which cannot be the case, if he include a vast compass. For as he can only take in a certain quantity of fore-ground; the removed parts of his picture should bear a proper proportion to it. Well Managed exceptions may be found: yet still, in general, the rule is good.
But altho the whole of the amphitheatre we are now surveying, was, in it's full dimensions, no subject for a picture; yet it exhibited many parts which, as distances, were purely picturesque; and afforded an admirable collection of mountain studies for a painter. I speak particularly of the front skreen, in which the lines of the mountains were beautiful, and various-- the intersections also of those lines-- the promontories; with the deep shades they projected-- and above all, the mountain colouring, which was the most splendid we had ever seen. Airy tints of vivid yellow, green, and purple, we could prismatically separate. Bright spots of effulgence also appeared; which could not well be denominated of any colour. Yet all, tho displayed in such rich profusion, were blended with such nice harmony; and tempered so modestly by the grey mistiness of distance; that gorgeous as these hues were, there was not a single colour, that glared, or was out of place.
-- For who can paint Like nature? Can imagination boast, Amidst it's gay creation, hues like her's? Or can it mix them with that matchless skill And lose them in each other?
We had now made a considerable progress in our voyage. The side-screen on the left, kept still the same distance; but the mountains in front, as we approached them, began now to separate into near, and distant grounds: and the rocks and woods, which, in the painter's language, adhered before; now broke away in a variety of projections; tho still overspread with soft colouring, and tender shadow.
As we approached nearer, this softness of colouring took a more vivid hue; and the promontories, and rocks continued still projecting to the eye with new force of shade: while the mountains, which ranged behind, began more and more to retire. The length of the lake, tho it affected the nearer grounds, made no change in the distant mountains: so that the comparative distance between the fore-ground and them, was now much greater, than it had been.
An appearance of this kind is beautifully described by Virgil. When AEneas came in sight of Italy, he first saw a hazy appearance of hills, and low land;
-- procul obscuros colles, humilemque videmus Italiam--
On a nearer approach, he discovered the temple of Minerva, which being seated on high ground, seemed, as if it stood on a promontory hanging over the sea.
-- Templum apparet in arce Minervae
But as he came close in with the land, the rocks took their proper form; and the temple retreated to a distance.
-- Gemino demittunt brachia muro Turriti scopuli; resugitque a litore templum.
As we approached the end of the lake, the promontories and rocks assumed new height; and almost hid the mountains, which continued to retire beyond them; while the form of the nearer grounds began also to vary. The water, which, a little before, seemed in contact with the rocks, appeared now to wash a meadow; beyond which the rocks formed a first distance.
The scenery put us in mind of Berghem; who often chose a meadow, with a rock behind it, to relieve his cattle. His rock is generally left plain, and simple, almost without a single varying tint; a mere mass of tender shadow: while the cattle are touched with infinite force and spirit. We saw the picture realized. Berghem's imagination could not have formed a better back-ground, nor a more beautiful group. Such combinations are pleasing in life, in painting, and in poetry.
-- On the grassy bank Some ruminating lie, while others stand Half in the flood; and often bending sip The circling-surface. In the middle rears The strong, laborious ox his honest front, Which incomposed he shakes; and from his side The troublous insects lashes with his tail, Returning still. Amid his subjects safe, Slumbers the monarch-swain, his careless arm Thrown round his head, on downy moss reclined; Here lay his scrip, with wholsome viands filled; There, listening every noise, his faithful dog.
Through the meadow at the bottom of the rocky ground, two rivers, the Bratha, and the Rotha, wind their way; and uniting before they meet the lake, enter it with a full, but quiet stream; and furnish it with large supplies.
The Rotha takes it's rise from mountains about twelve miles distant; and forms the two lakes of Grasmer, and Rydal, before it enter Windermere.
The Bratha rises from the pike of Langdale, in a mountainous, and rocky country; and after a turbulent course, buries at length all it's inquietude in the peaceful waters of the lake, where it's name is no more remembred.
Our boatmen having conveyed us a considerable way up these united streams, landed us on the meadows, within half a mile of Ambleside.
Before we leave this grand expanse of water, I cannot forbear remarking a few circumstances, that relate to it.
In the first place we admired it's extraordinary brightness. It is all over nitidis argenteus undis. The eye can see distinctly, in smooth water, through a medium of at least a dozen yards; and view the inhabitants of it's deep recesses, as they play in shoals, and
-- sporting with quick glance Shew to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold.
How far the transparency of water is an addition to a scene, I cannot take upon me to say. Most of the lakes in Scotland, which I saw, are of a mossy-tinctured hue; and yet had their full effect in landscape. -- As a detached object however the transparent lake is incomparably the most beautiful. I should suppose also, that the more brilliant the water is, the more brilliant are the reflections.
Among the great variety of fish, which inhabit the extensive waters of this lake, the char is the most remarkable. It is near twice the size of a herring. It's back is of an olive-green: it's belly of a light vermilion; softening in some parts into white; and changing into a deep red, at the insertion of the fins.
A parcel of char, just caught and thrown together into the luggage-pool of a boar, makes a pleasant harmony of colouring. The green olive-tint prevails; to which a spirit is here and there given by a light blush of vermilion; and by a strong touch of red, if a fin happen to appear. These pleasing colours are assisted by the bright silvery lights, which play over the whole; for nothing reflects light more beautifully than the scales of fish.
Char are caught only in the winter-season, when twenty dozen in a day, are sometimes taken by a single boat. In summer they retire to the rocky caves below, some of which are said to be unfathomable: nor do they breed in any lake, in which such deep recesses are not found.
The char-fishing is a very profitable branch of trade to the proprietors of the lake. The whole area of it is divided into five districts. An invisible line crosses the surface from crag to crag-- a limit, which the fisherman correctly knows. But tho the space of each fishery is nearly equal, yet the produce is otherwise; the fish running in shoals sometimes in one part of the lake, and sometimes in another. -- When the farmer rents land, he can judge of his bargain by the surface. When he rents water, he must take his chance.
But fish are not the only inhabitants of this lake. Innumerable flights of water-fowl frequent it's extensive plain. The naturalist may declare their names, and classes: the painter has only to remark the variety of forms, in which they appear-- sometimes sitting in black groups upon the water, rising and sinking with the waves: at other times in the air, circling the lake in figured files; or with hesitating wing seizing some station on it's banks, or surface. -- With regard to these minute ap - pendages of landscape, let me only suggest, that birds should never be introduced upon the wing, near the eye. Quick motion, of any kind, represented, is an absurdity: and the longer you look, the more absurd it becomes. But at a little distance the motion of a bird appears so slow, that the eye will endure a degree of improbability in the representation of it.
I have only to add, that this magnificent piece of water suffers little change, in appearance, from seasons; but preserves the dignity of it's character under all circumstances; seldom depressed, and as seldom raised above it's ordinary level-- Even in the most violent rains, when the country is drenched in water, the mountains pour down floods through new channels; the lake maintains the same equal temper; and tho it may spread a few yards over it's lowest shores( which is the utmost it does) yet it's increase is seldom the object of observation: nor does the severity of the greatest drought make any considerable alternation in it's bounds. Once,( it is recorded,) it rose seven feet in perpendicular height. It's boundaries would then certainly appear inlarged; but this was a very uncommon case.
But if it be not raised by rains, it is often greatly agitated by winds. Of all the lakes of this country, none lies so exposed, through the whole length of it, to sudden squalls, as this: nor does any piece of fresh water in the whole island perhaps emulate the grandeur of a disturbed ocean so much. It is of course navigated with great caution, whenever there is a tendency to stormy weather. Many accidents have shewn the necessity of this caution: but one made such an impression on the country, as a century cannot efface. Several people in the neighbourhood of Bowness, having been attending a fair at Hawkshed, a town on the other side of the lake, had embarked, in the evening, on their return home. But before this little voyage could be performed, so violent a storm arose, that their boats foundered; and no fewer than forty - seven persons perished.
 This account is taken from Dr. Bourn's hist. of Westmoreland. It is probable these people might all have perished together in the ferry boat.
Sect. Xii.

From Ambleside we proposed to set out for Keswick; being obliged, for want of time, to leave one scene behind us, which we wished much to visit-- that of Furness Abbey. But the loss was in a great measure made up, and our curiosity satisfied, by the accounts and drawings of Mr. John Smith, an ingenious young painter, who had been studying the ruins on the spot.
 This artist has had a principal hand in etching the drawings which accompany these observations.
Furness Abbey lies about twenty miles from Ambleside, beyond those mountains, which range on the western side of Windermere. It is situated in a beautiful valley, in the midst of a wide, open, cultivated country, which rises every where in large swells; but is no where diversified by any objects of picturesque beauty. In so inanimate a scene we are surprized to find a valley of so different a structure; adorned with rock, and wood; through which winds a rapid stream.
At the entrance of this scene stands the village of Dalton; from whence the valley, winding about four miles in one large, sweeping, narrow curve, opens on a rich view of Cartmel Bay.
About a mile within the valley, in the widest part, stands the abbey. It seems to have been constructed in a good style of Gothic architecture; and has suffered, from the hand of time, only such depredations, as picturesque beauty requires. The intire plan of the abbey-church, and a large fragment of it, still remain. The tower in the centre, which seems never to have been lofty, is perforated with large arches. At the end of the western aile stand the ruins of a low, simple tower, where the bells of the abbey are supposed to have hung: and from the south aile projects a building, which is called the chapter-house. The cloysters are continued in the same di - rection; one wall of which, and all the internal structure are gone. At the end of the cloysters arises a very rich and picturesque fragment, which is called the school.
Round the whole runs an irregular wall, which crossing the valley in two places, and mounting it's sides, makes a circuit of about two miles. In many parts it is hid with trees, or shrubs: in some parts, where it is discovered, it is beautiful; and in very few, disgusting.
In this wall are two gates, one to the north, and the other to the west; which seem to have been the only outlets of the place. That to the north has been the great entrance: the other has more the appearance of a postern with a porter's lodge.
The proprietor of this noble scene is lord George Cavendish, who is a faithful guardian of it, and, I am informed, takes care to prevent any further depredations.
From Ambleside we set out for Keswick, which is about eighteen miles farther north.
We were now about to enter the middle, and most formidable part, of that vast chain of mountains, which I have before mentioned, as the barrier between Cumberland, and Westmoreland; and which promised, from a distant view, to present us with a great variety of very grand scenery. Our morning's voyage on the smooth expanse of the lake aided our present expedition with all the powers of contrast.
But before we enter these majestic scenes, it may be necessary to premise a distinction between a scene of mountains, and a mountain scene.
Mountainous countries most commonly present only the former. The objects are grand; but they are huddled together, confused, without connection; and the painter considers them onoly as studies; and forms them into pictures by imaginary combinations.
We somtimes however see a mountainous country, in which nature itself hath made these beautiful combinations-- where one part relates to another, and the effect of a whole is produced. This is what I call a mountain scene.
Of this latter kind is almost the whole road between Ambleside, and Keswick. The mountains are naturally combined into scenes; which if not, in all parts, purely picturesque; are, in all parts, marked with the great lines of composition; tho often on too wide a scale for imitation.
The first object of our attention, on leaving Ambleside, was Rydal Hall, the seat of Sir Michael le Fleming. It stands on a rising lawn. On the north and east it is sheltered by lofty mountains. In front, towards the south, it commands a noble distance, consisting of the extensive vale of Windermere, bounded by the lake. The mountain, on the north, called Rydal Cragg, rising close behind the house, is high and rocky. That on the east, is of inferior size, but is covered with wood. Between these mountains runs a narrow, wooded valley; through which a considerable stream, falling down a quick descent, along a rocky channel, forms a succession of cascades.
One of these, tho but a miniature, is so beautiful both in itself, and in it's accompaniments, as to deserve particular notice. -- It is seen from a summer-house; before which it's rocky cheeks circling on each side form a little area; appearing through the window like a picture in a frame. The water falls within a few yards of the eye, which being rather above it's level, has a long perspective view of the stream, as it hurries from the higher grounds; tumbling, in various, little breaks, through it's rocky channel, darkened with thicket, till it arrive at the edge of the precipice, before the window; from whence it rushes into the bason, which is formed by nature in the native rock. The dark colour of the stone, taking still a deeper tinge from the wood, which hangs over it, sets off to wonderful advantage the sparkling lustre of the stream; and produces an uncommon effect of light. It is this effect indeed, from which the chief beauty of the scene arises. In every representation, truly picturesque, the shade should greatly overbalance the light. The face of nature, under the glow of noon, has rarely this beautiful appearance. The artist therefore generally courts her charms in a morning, or an evening hour, when the shadows are deep, and extended; and when the sloping sun-beam affords rather a catching, than a glaring light. In this little exhibition we had an admirable idea of the magical effect of light picturesquely distributed.
On leaving Rydal, we entered a vast chasm between two mountains, which may properly be called a portal to the scenes we approached.
On passing it, we were presented with a grand scene of mountains; adorned by a lake, called Rydal Water, on the left; not indeed adequate to the greatness of the surrounding objects; but of such beauty, as immediately to fix the eye. In the midst of it is a rocky island, covered with wood. The little River Rotha, winding round a promontory, enters it on the north.
Leaving these scenes, we ascended a very steep hill; from the summit of which was displayed a prospect of desolation in a very dignified form. It was an amphitheatre of craggy mountains, which appeared to sweep round a circumference of at least thirty miles; tho in fact, perhaps it did not include half that space. But great objects naturally form a wide scale of mensuration. -- The soul involuntarily shuddered at the first aspect of such a scene. -- At the distant part of it lay Grasmer Lake; which being so far removed from the eye, seemed only a bright spot at the bottom of the mountains.
To this lake the road directly led. A nearer approach presented us with some beautiful views on it's banks; tho, on the whole, it's principal merit consisted in refreshing the eye with a smooth expanse of water, in the midst of such a variety of rough mountain-scenery. As we skirted it's limits, it seemed larger, than that of Rydal; and tho it appeared like a spot at a distance, became now the principal feature of this vast vale.
From hence the road led us into another amphitheatre, wild, and immense like the former; but varied greatly in the shapes of the mountains; which were here more broken and irregular; shooting, in many places, into craggy summits, and broken points.
And yet even these wild scenes, covered, as they are, with craggs, and scarce furnishing the least tint of vegetation, are subject to rights, for which none but the hard inhabitant would think it worth his while to contend. You see every where their bare, and barren sides marked with partition-walls-- stones without morter, laid upon each other, crossing at right angles; and running down steeps, and along precipices, where the eye can scarce conceive they could have any foundation. All these partitions of desolation, as they may be called, have their inhabitants; each maintaining a few stunted sheep, which picking the meagre tufts of grass, which grow under the sheltered sides of craggs, and stones, earn, like their owners, a hard subsistence.
At the conclusion of this immense amphitheatre, into which we last entered, we found an exit, equal to the scene-- another grand mountain-gap, or portal, through which the road carried us up another steep mountain-- At the top we paused, and looking back on the scenes we had left, were presented with a view, which wholly filled the imagination.
It was a retrospect of the amphitheatre we had passed; but in a style still grander, than the prospect of it. It was more strongly marked with great out-lines of composition; and was, of course, more a whole.
A wide vale, thrown by perspective into a circular form, lay before the eye. Here also the distant part seemed occupied by the lake of Grasmer; but a greyish mist left the idea ambiguous. Beyond the lake arose various mountains, which bounded it: and still beyond these, appeared the blue heads of other mountains. Those, which formed the side-screens of the vale, advancing forward from the distant mountains beyond the lake, approached the eye in a grand sweep, by the easy gradations of perspective. The promontories, and recesses, of the more removed parts were marked by a faint shadow; till by degrees both the side-screens, growing boldly on the eye, were lost behind the two cheeks of the craggy portal, which, with the road between them, formed a fore-ground equal to the scene. The whole view is entirely of the horrid kind. Not a tree appeared to add the least chearfulness to it.
With regard to the adorning of such a scene with figures, nothing could suit it better than a group of banditti. Of all the scenes I ever saw, this was the most adapted to the perpetration of some dreadful deed. The imagination can hardly avoid conceiving a band of robbers lurking under the shelter of some pro - jecting rock; and expecting the traveller, as he approaches along the valley below.
Nothing however of this kind was ever heard of in the country. The depredations of foxed, are the only depredations, to which the cottages in these vallies are exposed. Our postilion pointed to a rugged part on the summit of a rocky mountain on the left, which, he told us, was the great harbour of these animals. Here they bred; from hence they infested the country; and to this inaccessible asylum they retreated in the hour of alarm.
After we left the two amphitheatres, just described, we met with nothing bery interesting, till we came to the celebrated pass, known by the name of Dunmail Raise, which divides the counties of Cumberland, and Westmoreland.
The history of this rude monument, which consists of a monstrous pile of stones, heaped on each side of an earthen mound, is little known. It was probably intended to mark a division, not between those two northern counties; but rather between the two kingdoms of England, and Scotland, in elder times, when the Scottish border extended beyond it's present bounds. And indeed this chain of mountains seems to be a much more natural division of the two kingdoms, in this part, than a little river in a champaign country, like the Esk, which now divides them. It is said, this division was made by a Saxon prince, on the death of Dunmail the last king of Cumberland, who was here slain in battle. -- But for whatever purpose this rude pile was fabricated, it hath yet suffered little change in it's dimensions; and is one of those monuments of antiquity, which may be characterized by the scriptural phrase of remaining to this very day.
The entrance into Cumberland presents us with a scene very strongly marked with the sublime; grander, tho les picturesque, than the amphitheatre we had passed. It is a vista of mountains pursuing each other, if I may so phrase it, through an easy descent of not less than six, or seven miles; and closed at the distant end by Wyburn Lake, a considerable piece of water.
 There are three passages, over this chain of mountains, into Cumberland. This by Ambleside, is the wildest, and most picturesque. A second by Brough over Stainmore, is dreary, rather than wild: and a third by Shap, is both.
This scene is great in all it's parts; and in it's general composition. The mountains, of which the side-screens of this vista are formed, fall generally in easy lines, and range at the distance of a mile and a half, or two miles, from each other. But it is difficult to ascertain a distance of this kind: for as the mountain rises gradually from it's base, we cannot easily fix where it begins. It is enough to observe, that through the whole immensity of the view before us there appeared no disproportion.
Among the mountains, which compose this magnificent scene, there is one on the right, of superior grandeur,; stretching, near a league and a half, in one vast concave ridge. This mountain is known by the name of Helvellin; with which three mountains only, through this vast region, dispute the point of altitude-- Cross Fell-- Grasmer-- and Skiddaw. The inhabitants of it's invirons give it universally for Helvellin: but, I believe, it is no where else treated with such respect.
Besides the general grandeur of this view, there is a wonderful variety in the shapes of the several mountains, which compose it. Nature's vistas are never formed by rule, and compass. Whenever she deviates towards a regular shape, she does it with that negligent air of greatness, which marks sublimity of genius. No attention to trifles characterizes her scenes. Her very regularities discover those strong touches of contrast, that range of imagination, which destroys every idea of sameness.
Of all the rude scenery we had yet visited, none is equalled this in desolation. The whole is one immensity of barrenness. The mountains are universally overspread with craggs, and stones, which are sometimes scattered carelessly over their surfaces; and sometimes appear shivering in cascades of crumbling fragments down their sides. Helvellin, through all it's space, is one intire pavement. Nor is the view disfigured by the abundance of this more ordinary species of rock. In it's vastness the parts coalesce; and become a whole. -- The fractured rock, so beautiful in itself, is calculated rather for smaller pictures. Here it would be lost.
 See pages 108.
These vast regions, whose parts are thus absorbed in the immensity of a whole, have the strongest effect on the imagination. They distend the mind, and fix it in a kind of stupor:
-- these regions, where retired From little scenes of art, great Nature dwells In awful solitude--
We now approached the lake of Wyburn, or Thirlmer, as it is sometimes called; an object every way suited to the ideas of desolation, which surround it. No tufted verdure graces it's banks, nor hanging woods throw rich reflections on it's surface: but every form, which it suggests, is savage, and desolate. It is about two miles in length, and half as much in breadth, surrounded by barren mountains, and precipices, shelving into it in all directions:
-- A joyless coast Around a stormy lake--
And to impress still more the characteristic idea of the place; the road hanging over it, ran along the edge of a precipice. -- One peculiar feature also belongs to it. About the middle of the lake, the shores, on each side, nearly uniting, are joined by an Alpine bridge. I did no observe any picturesque beauty arising from this circumstance: but rather a formality; at least from the stand, where I viewed it. A communication however of this kind rather increases the romantic idea.
Beyond Wyburn Lake we deviated into a mere scene of mountains. Nature seemed to have aimed at some mode of composition, which she had left unfinished; but it was difficult to conceive, what species of landscape she meant; a valley, or a woody recess; a barren scene, or a cultivated one. There was a mixture of all.
This miscellaneous passage however did not continue long. It appeared only a short interruption of the grand vista, from which we had deviated at the lake of Wyburn; and into which we now returned. Nature however seemed to have spent her force in her first effort; which was greatly superior to the second.
The thickets among these mountains, and indeed many other parts of the country, are frequented by the wild-cat; which Mr. Pennant calls the British tyger; and says, it is the fiercest, and most destructive beast we have. He speaks of it as being three or four times as large as the common cat. We saw one dead, which had been hunted on the day we saw it; and it seemed very little inferior, if at all, to the size he mentions.
By this time we approached Keswick; and from the descent of Castle Hill, at about two miles distance, had an extensive view of the whole country around that celebrated scene of romantic beauty.
Before us lay a plain many leagues in circumference, divided into two large portions; each of which is floated by a lake. Derwent Water overspreads the nearer; and Bassenthwait, the more distant. Surrounding the whole, rises a vast, circular chain of mountains; and tow - ering over them all, on the eastern side of the isthmus, stands the mountain of Skiddaw. We had heard too much of this mountain, to meet it properly: it has none of those bold projections, and shaggy majesty about it, which we expected to have seen in this king of mountains. It is a tame, inanimate object; except at such a distance, as smooths the imbossed work of all these rich fabrics; and where it's double top makes it a distinguished object to mark, and characterize a scene. -- But if the mountain disappointed us; the scene, over which it presided, went beyond our imagination.
This rich, extensive view was aided, when we saw it, by all the powers( or, more properly, the resplendency) of light and shade. The morning had been fine: but in the afternoon the clouds began to gather, threatening rain. A heavy sky overspread the higher, and middle regions o the air with all the solemnity of gloom; dropping it's dark mantle to the skirts of the horizon. Just as we arrived at the brow of the hill, with the scenery of the two lakes, and their accompaniments before us, the setting sun burst forth in a glow of splendor.
If a common sun-set often gives a beautiful appearance even to an ordinary landscape; what must have been the effect of an uncommon one, on such a landscape as this-- a sun-set not merely a flood of splendor, but contrasted by the fullest depth of shade? Here we had the beauties of the little summer-house scene, on the most extensive scale. The effect was astonishing. The whole was a scene of glory-- but a scene of glory painted by the hand of nature. Tho every part glowed with transcendent lustre; the whole was in nicest harmony. But it was a transitory vision. While we gazed; it faded: and in a few moments nothing was left, but the great outlines-- the grand composition of the scene. We should have stood over it even thus, in rapture; if we had not just seen what a splendid addition it was capable of receiving.
We have a grand picture from the pencil of a great master, of the close of such an evening.
As when from mountain tops the dusky clouds Ascending, while the north-wind sleeps, overspread Heaven's chearful face; the louring element Scowls, over the darkened landscape, snow or shower; If chance the radiant sun, with farewel sweet, Extend his evening beam, the fields revive 
The birds their notes renew, and bleating herds Attest their joy, that hill and valley ring.
But Milton's ideas, I think, in general, are rather musical, than picturesque. We have the same picture by an inferior master; tho a better colourist.
Thus all day long the full distended clouds Indulge their genial stores-- Till in the western sky, the downward sun Looks out effulgent from amid the flush Of broken clouds, gay shifting to his beam. The rapid radiance instantaneous strikes The illumined moutnain; through the forest streams; Glows on the lake; and in a yellow mist Spreads over the bright, interminable plain.
Here we have all the resplendency of light; but not a sufficient balance of shade. Milton gives the balance in the other scale. If Thomson had introduced, like Milton, the louring element scowling over his darkened landscape, his resplendent tints would have had their full force; and the effect had been complete.
Keswick is the first town we meet with, on our entrance into Cumberland; and tho a place of no consequence, is however much superior to Ambleside. Between the two places there is a great resemblance. Keswick stands at the north-point of Derwent Water; which is the very point, that Ambleside occupies on Windermere. But the situation of Ambleside is more romantic, as it stands more in the middle of that chain of mountains, which separates the two counties. At Keswick the roughnesses of the country are wearing off: for in a few miles beyond it, this great barrier ends.
Here we resolved to fix our head-quarters for a few days; and from thence to visit such of the neighbouring lakes, and mountains, as had been most recommended to our notice.
Sect. Xiii.

On the 9th of June we set out on horseback( which I mention, as it is the only conveyance the road will admit) on an expedition into Borrodale; a wild country south-west of Keswick. Our road led along the lake of Derwent, which was the first object we surveyed.
But before we examined the particulars of this grand scene, we took a general view of the whole, from it's northern shore; which is the only part unblockaded by mountains. This is the isthmian part, which joins the valley of Derwent Water with that of Bassenthwait. It was easy from the higher grounds of this isthmus to obtain the station we desired.
The lake of Derwent, or Keswick Lake, as it is generally called, is contained within a circumference of about ten miles; presenting itself in a circular form, tho in fact it is rather oblong. It's area is interspersed with four or five islands: three of which only are of consequence, Lord's island, Vicar's island, and St. Herbert's island: but none of them is comparable to the island on Windermere, in point either of size, or beauty.
If a painter were desirous of studying the whole circumference of the lake from one station, St. Herbert's island is the spot he should choose; from whence, as from a centre, he might see it in rotation. I have seen a set of drawings taken from this stand; which were hung round a circular room, and intended to give a general idea of the boundaries of the lake. But as no representation could be give of the lake itself; the idea was lost, and the drawings made but an awkward appearance.
Lord's island had it's name being the place, where once stood a pleasure-house, belonging to the unfortunate family of Derwent Water, which took it's title from this lake. The ancient manor-house stood on Castle Hill above Keswick; where antiquarian traces also the vestiges of a Roman fort. But an heiress of Derwent Water marring into the family of the Ratcliffs; the family-seat was removed from Keswick to Dilston in Northumberland.
As the boundaries of this lake are more mountainous than those of Windermere; they, of course, afford more romantic scenery. But tho the whole shore, except the spot where we stood, is incircled with mountains; they rarely fall abruptly into the water; which is girt almost round by a margin of meadow-- on the western shores especially. On the eastern, the mountains approach nearer the water; and in some parts fall perpendicularly into it. But as we stood viewing the lake from it's northern shores, all these marginal parts were lost; and the mountains( tho in fact they describe a circle of twenty miles, which is double the circumference of the lake) appeared universally to rise from the water's edge.
Along it's western shores on the right, they rise smooth and uniform; and are therefore rather lumpish. The more removed part of this mountain-line is elegant: but, in some parts, it is disagreeably broken.
On the eastern side, the mountains are both grander, and more picturesque. The line is pleasing; and is filled with that variety of objects, broken-ground,-- rocks,-- and wood, which being well combined, take from the heaviness of a mountain; and give it an airy lightness.
The front - screen,( if we may so call a portion of a circular form,) is more formidable, than either of the sides. But it's line is less elegant, than that of the eastern-screen. The fall of Lodoar, which adorns that part of the lake, is an object of no consequence at the distance we now stood. But in our intended ride we proposed to take a nearer view of it.
Of all the lakes in these romantic regions, the lake we are now examining, seems to be most generally admired. It was once admirably characterized by an ingenious person, who, on his first seeing it, cryed out, Here is beauty indeed-- Beauty lying in the lap of Horrour! We do not often find a happier illustration. Nothing conveys an idea of beauty more strongly, than the lake; nor of horrour, than the mountains; and the former lying in the lap of the latter, expresses in a strong manner the mode of their combination. The late Dr. Brown, who was a man of taste, and had seen every part of this country, singled out the scenery of this lake for it's peculiar beauty. And unquestionably it is, in many places, very sweetly romantic; particularly along it's eastern, and southern shores: but to give it pre-eminence may be paying it perhaps as much too high a compliment; as it would be too rigorous to make any but a few comparative objections.
 The late Mr. Avison, organist of St. Nicholas at Newcastle upon Tyne.
 In a letter to Lord Lyttelton, quoted above.
In the first place, it's form, which in appearance is circular, is less interesting, I think, than the winding sweep of Windermere, and some other lakes; which losing themselves in vast reaches, behind some cape or promontory, add to their other beauties the varieties of distance, and perspective. Some people object to this, as touching rather on the character of the river. But does that injure it's beauty? And yet I believe there are very few rivers, which form such reaches, as the lake of Windermere.
To the formality of it's shores may be added the formality of it's islands. They are round, regular, and similar spots, as they appear from most points of view; formal in their situation, as well as in their shape; and of little advantage to the scene. The islands of Windermere are in themselves better shaped; more varied; and uniting together, add a beauty, and contrast to the whole.
But among the greatest objections to this lake is the abrupt, and broken line in several of the mountains, which compose it's screens,( especially on the western, and on part of the southern shore) which is more remarkable, than on any of the other lakes. We have little of the easy sweep of a mountain-line: at least the eye is hurt with too many tops of mountains, which injure the ideas of simplicity, and grandeur. Great care therefore should be taken in selecting views of this lake. If there is a littleness even amidst the grand ideas of the original, what can we expect from representations on paper, or canvas? I have seen some views of this lake, injudiciously chosen, or taken on too extensive a scale, in which the mountains appear like hay-cocks. -- I would be understood however to speak chiefly of the appearance, which the lines of these mountains occasionally make. When we change our point of view, the mountain-line changes also, and may be beautiful in one point, tho it is displeasing in another.
Having thus take a view of the whole lake together from it's northern point, we proceeded on our rout to Borrodale, skirting the eastern coast along the edge of the water. The grand side-screen, on the left hung over us; and we found it as beautifully romantic, and pleasing to the imagination, when it's rocks, precipices, and woods became a fore-ground; as it appeared from the northern point of the lake, when we examined it in a more removed point of view.
Nor do these rocky shores recommend themselves to us only as fore-grounds. We found them every where the happiest stations for obtaining the most picturesque views of the lake. The inexperienced conductor, shewing you the lake, carries you to some garish stand, where the eye may range far and wide. And such a view indeed is well calculated, as we have just seen, to obtain a general idea of the whole. But he, who is in quest of the picturesque scenes of the lake, must travel along the rough side-screens that adorn it; and catch it's beauties, as they arise in smaller portions-- it's little bays, and winding shores-- it's deep recesses, and hanging promontories-- it's garnished rock, and distant mountain. These are, in general, the picturesque scenes, which it affords.
Part of this mountain is known by the name of Lady's - rake, from a tradition, that a young lady of the Derwentwater family, in the time of some public disturbance, escaped a pursuit by climbing a precipice, which had been thought inaccessible. -- A romantic place seldom wants a romantic story to adorn it.
Detached from this continent of precipice, if I may so speak, stands a rocky hill, known by the name of Castellet. Under the beetling brow of the natural ruin we passed; and as we viewed it upwards from it's base, it seemed a fabric of such grandeur, that alone it was sufficient to give dignity to any scene. We were desired to take particular notice of it for a reason, which shall afterwards be mentioned.
As we proceeded in our rout along the lake, the road grew wilder, and more romantic. There is not an idea more tremendous, than that of riding along the edge of a precipice, unguarded by an parapet, under impending rocks, which threaten above; while the surges of a flood, or the whirlpools of a rapid river, terrify below.
Many such roads there are in various parts of the world; particularly among the mountains of Norway and Sweden; where they are carried along precipices of such frightful height, that the trees at the bottom assume the azure tint of distance; and the cataracts which roar among them, cannot even be heard, unless the air be perfectly still. These tremendous roads are often not only without rail, or parapet of any kind; but so narrow, that travellers in opposite directions cannot pass, unless one of the draw himself up close to the rock. In some places, where the precipice does not afford footing even for this narrow shelf; or, where it may have foundered, a cleft pine is thrown across the chasm. The appalled traveller arriving at the spot, surveys it with dismay. -- Return, he dare not-- for he knows what a variety of terrors he has already passed. -- Yet if his foot slip, or the plank, on which he rests, give way; he will find his death, and his grave together; and never more be heard of.
But here we had not even the miniature of these dreadful ideas, at least on the side of the lake: for in the steepest part, we were scarce raised thirty of forty feet above the water.
As we edged the precipices, we every where saw fragments of rock, and large stones scattered about, which being loosened by frostsw and rains, had fallen from the cliffs above; and shew the traveller what dangers he has escaped.
Once we found ourselves in hands more capricious than the elements. We rode along the edge of a precipice, under a steep woody rock; when some large stones came rolling from the top, and rushing through the thickets above us, bounded across the road, and plunged into the lake. At that instant we had made a pause to observe some part of the scenery; and by half a dozen yards escaped mischief. The wind was loud, and we conceived the stones had been dislodged by it's violence: but on riding a little further, we discovered the real cause. High above our heads, at the summit of the cliff, sat a group of mountaineer children, amusing themselves with pushing stones from the top; and watching, as they plunged into the lake. -- Of us they knew nothing, who were screened from them by intervening thickets.
As we approached the head of the lake, we were desired to turn round, and take a view of Castellet, that rocky hill, which had appeared so enormous, as we stood under it. It had now shrunk into nothing in the midst of that scene of greatness, which surrounded it. I mention this circumstance, as in these wild countries, comparison is the only scale used in the mensuration of mountains. At least it was the only scale to which we were ever referred. In countries graced by a single mountain, the inhabitants may be very accurate in their investigations of it's height. The altitude and circumference of the Wrekin, I have no doubt, is accurately known in Shropshire; but in a country like this, where chain is linked to chain exactness would be endless.
By this time we approached the head of the lake; and could now distinguish the full sound of the fall of Lodoar; which had before reached our ears, as the wind suffered, indistinctly in broken notes.
This water-fall is a noble object, both in itself, and as an ornament of the lake. It appears more as an object connected with the lake, as we approach by water. By land, we see it over a promontory of low ground, which, in some degree, hides it's grandeur. At the distance of a mile, it begins to appear with dignity.
But of whatever advantage the fall of Lodoar may be as a piece of distant scenery, it's effect is very noble, when examined on the spot. As a single object, it wants non accompaniments of offskip; which would rather injure, than assist it. They would disturb it's simplicity, and repose. The greatness of it's parts affords scenery enough. Some instruments please in concert: others you wish to hear alone.
The stream falls through a chasm between two towering perpendicular rocks. The intermediate part, broken into large fragments, forms the rough bed of the cascade. Some of these fragments stretching out in shelves, hold a depth of soil sufficient for large trees. Among these broken rocks the stream finds it's way through a fall of at least an hundred feet; and in heavy rains, the water is every way suited to the grandeur of the scene. Rocks and water in opposition can hardly produce a more animated strife. The ground at the bottom also is very much broken, and overgrown with trees, and thickets; amongst which the water is swallowed up into an abyss; and at length finds it's way, through deep channels, into the lake. We dismounted, and got as near as we could: but were not able to approach so near, as to look into the woody chasm, which receives the fall.
Having viewed this grand piece of natural ruin, we proceeded in our rout towards the mountains of Borrodale; and shaping our course along the southern shores of the lake, we came to the River Derwent, which is a little to the west of the Lodoar.
These two rivers, the Lodoar, and the Derwent, furnish the chief supplies of Derwentwater. But those of the latter are much ampler. The Lodoar accordingly is lost in the lake: while the Derwent, first giving it's name to it, retains it's own to the sea.
On passing this river, and turning the first great promontory on our left, we found ourselves in a vast recess of mountains. We had seen them at a distance, from the northern extremity of the lake. They were more than objects of grandeur. But now they had assumed their full majestic form; surrounding us on every side with their lofty barriers; and shutting out, in appearance, every idea of an escape. Wild and various beyond conception were their shapes: but they participated rather of the desolate, than of the fantastic idea. From the bottom of the lake indeed they formed too great a combination of pointed summits. But here all these grotesque shapes disappeared. The summits receded far behind; and we only saw the bursting rocks, and bold protuberances, with which the sides of these enormous masses of solid earth are charged. Many of them are covered, like the steeps of Helvellin, with a continued pavement of craggs.
The winding of the Derwent was the clue we followed in our passage through these regions of desolation. An aperture between the mountains brought us into another wild recess, where a similar scene opened; diversified from the first only by some new forms, or new position, or varied furniture, of the incumbent mountains.
As we doubled one promontory, another unfolded; and we found ourselves, not in, what appeared at firt, a recess of moutnains; but in a narrow, winding valley; the scenes of which, by quick transitions, were continually shifting. This valley so replete with hideous grandeur, is known by the name of the straits of Borrodale.
In the middle of one of the recesses of the valley lies an enormous stone; which is called in the country Boother Stone. Massy rocks of immense size, rent from mountains, are every where found: but this stone appears to be of a different kind. It does not seem to have been the appendage of a mountain; but itself an independent creation. It lies in a sort od diagonal position; overshadowing a space, sufficient to shelter a troop of horse.
Not far from hence arises a woody hill, called Castell Cragg; which is also detached from the scenery around it. On the summit of this hill, stood formerly a fortress, supposed to be of Roman origin; intended to guard this avenue into the country. After it had been relinquished by the Romans, it was occupied by the Saxons; and, after their day, it was given, with all the lands about Borrodale, by one of the lords of Derwent Water, to the monks of Furness. By these religious it was still maintained in it's military capacity; which is perhaps a singular instance of the kind. But as the Scots, in those days, made frequent irruptions even thus far into the country; and as the monks had great possessions to defend in the valley of Borrodale; where one of their principal magazines was established; the holy fathers thought it proper to adopt this uncommon measure. Besides their tythe-corn, they amassed here the valuable minerals of the country; among which, salt, produced from a spring in the valley, was no inconsiderable article.
We had now travelled three of four miles in this winding valley; which, as we advanced, began to assume a softer form. The hills became cloathed with verdure; and the little recesses of the valley, shaded with wood. These recesses also, which were before shut up, and confined by rocky barriers, now opened in different shapes; and many of them were pleasantly varied with wooded hillocs: while the stony banks of the Derwent, began to change into meadows; scanty indeed; but affording pasturage for a few cattle; and a pleasant tint of verdure, as a contrast with the rocky scenery in it's neighbourhood.
We were now in that part of the valley, which is properly called the valley of Borrodale-- a large, circular recess, consisting of much broken ground; and, except where the valley still pursues it's course, surrounded by lofty mountains; from which pour innumerable rills and torrents, tho little interesting in the scene, as objects of picturesque beauty.
In this deep retreat lies the village of Rosthwait; having at all times, little intercourse with the country; but during half the year, almost totally excluded from all human commerce.
Here the sons, and daughters of simplicity enjoy health, peace, and contentment, in the midst of what city-luxury would call the extreme of human necessity;
Stealing their whole dominion from the waste; Repelling winter-blasts with mud and straw.
Their scanty patches of arable land, and these cultivated with difficulty; and their crops late-ripening, and often a prey to autumnal rains, which are violent in this country, just give them bread to eat. Their herds afford them milk; and their flocks, cloaths; the shepherd himself being often the manufacturer also. No dye is necessary to tinge their wool: it is naturally a russet-brown; and sheep and shepherds are cloathed alike; both in the simple livery of nature.
The procuring of fuel is among their greatest hardships. In most parts of the world this article is sought either in pits, or on the surface of the earth. Here the inhabitants are obliged to get it on the tops of mountains; which abounding with mossy grounds, seldom found in the vallies below, supply them with peat. The difficulty lies in conveying it from such immense heights. In doing this they have recourse to a strange, and dangerous expedient; tho similar to the modes of conveyance, which necessity dictates in other mountainous countries. They make their peat into bundles, and fasten it upon sledges; on each of which a man sits, and guides the machine with his foot down the precipice. We saw many tracks along the sides of mountains, made by these sledges; several of which were four of five hundred feet high, and appeared from the bottom almost perpendicular.
After a long and fatiguing morning we refreshed ourselves at the village of Rosthwait on eggs, and mils; and they who cannot be satisfied with such a meal in a mountainous country, must carry their larder with them.
Sect. Xiv.

From Rosthwait the valley pursues it's course towards the east; and losing again it's milder features, grows every step more wild, and desolate. After a march of two miles farther, we came to the village of Satterthwait, still more intrenched in mountains, than Rosthwait itself. Here, in the depth of winter, the sun never shines. As the spring advances, his rays begin to shoot over the southern mountains; and at high noon to tip the chimney tops of the village. That radiant sign shews the cheerless winter to be now over; and rouses the hardy peasant to the labours of the coming year.
A little beyond this scene of desolation, the Derwent, on whose banks we still continued, rushes down a long declivity between two mountains. At the fall of Lodoar the higher level comes abruptly upon the lower: here, the two levels are united by a gradual descent. The streams of course taking the same modes of precipitations as the land, the Lodoar forms a perpendicular fall; and the Derwent, a declivous one. But the fall of the Derwent is more singular; and is the only one of the kind perhaps in the country.
And here I cannot help remarking the singular character of this mountain-stream. There is not perhaps a river in England, which passes through such a variety of different scenes. What wild, romantic channel it shapes, before it enter the vale of Borrodale, is to us unknown. There first we commenced our acquaintance with it. It's passage through that mountain-chasm, is marked with objects, not only great in themselves; but rarely to be found elsewhere in such interesting combinations.
From a mountain-stream it soon assumes a new character, and changes into a lake; where it displays the wonders, we have just seen.
From hence emerging, it again becomes a river: but soon forms the lake of Bassenthwait; of form, and dimensions very different from that of Keswick.
Contracting itself again into a river, it puts on a character intirely new. Hitherto it has adorned only the wild, rough scenes of nature. All these it now relinquishes-- rocks-- lakes-- and mountains; and enters a sweet delightful country, where all it's accompaniments are soft, and lovely. Among other places it visits the noble, and picturesque ruins of Cockermouth Castle; under the walls of which it glides.
From hence it passes to the sea, which many streams of greater consequence never meet under their own names; but are absorbed by larger rivers: while the Derwent, after all the astonishing scenes it has adorned, adds to it's other beauties, those of an estuary.
In this last part of it's course it visits Workington Hall, one of the grandest and most beautiful situations of the country. Besides it's hanging woods, and sloping lawns, it is remarkable for having been the first prison-house of the unfortunate Mary of Scotland, after she had landed within the dominions of her rival. Here the Derwent becomes navigable; and forms the best natural harbour in Cumberland.
I have often thought, that if a person wished particularly to amuse himself with picturesque scenes, the best method he could take, would be to placed before him a good map of England; and to settle in his head the course of all the chief rivers of the country. These rivers should be the great directing lines of his excursions. On their banks he would be sure, not only to find the most beautiful views; but would also obtain a compleat system of every kind of landscape. He would have no occasion to keep so close to the river he pursued, as not to deviate a little, for the sake of a beautiful scene. Castles, and abbeys this plan would almost universally comprehend; for most of them are seated either on rocks, or knolls projecting into rivers; or in some sweet valley which opens to them. Bridges of course it would include; which make a pleasing species of scenery. Mountains, and lakes I need not mention: the former produce rivers; and the latter are produced by them. It would also include sea-coast views; many of which are very interesting, when the estuary opens to some beautiful, winding shore, with views of distant country.
I once attempted to analyze the Thames in this way. But I was obliged to divide so magnificent a subject. Indeed it naturally divided itself into three parts-- from Oxford to Windsor-- from Windsor to London-- from London to the sea. An imperial river, like the Thames, must be navigated; at least it's two lower divisions: but inferior rivers are best examined by an excursion along their banks.
We left the Derwent in it's declivious course between two mountains. One of them, under whose shadow the torrent pours, is called Eagle's - cragg; as it's tremendous rocks are the chief habitation of these birds; and seem to be considered by them as a sort of castle, which from time immemorial they have possessed. It is a common species of traffic in this country to supply the curious with young eagles; in the taking of which the inhabitants are very expert. They observe the nests from the bottom; and judging of the age of the young birds, they catch the opportunity, when the old eagles are abroad, and let themselves down by ropes from the summits of the cliffs. We saw one which had been just taken. It was only six weeks old; and was nearly of the size of a turkey-hen. It seemed to have acquired already a full share of ferocity; and screamed violently, if we offered to touch it.
Many large birds we saw amongst these mountains, sailing about the air, which we imagine to be eagles: but one of our company, being a naturalist, bad us observe their tail feathers. If their tails were forked, they were of the buzzard species: the tail of the eagle is circular.
Among the anecdotes we heard in this country of eagles, one was rather curious-- An eagle was seen at a distance, to pounce on it's prey; which it carried, in a perpendicular ascent, aloft into the air; and hanging dubious for some time, it was at length observed to descend in the same direct line; and it's fall, as it approached, seemed attended with an odd, tumbling motion. The cause was soon discovered. It fell stone dead on the ground; and a weasel, which it had carried up, and which had had the address to kill it's adversary in the air, being now at liberty, ran away.
We had accompanied the valley of Borrodale as far to the east, as Eagle's - cragg. It stretches also to the west; tho in a more broken, and abrupt form.
Somewhat further, on this side, than Eagle's cragg lies on the other, rise those mountains, where the celebrated black-lead mine is wrought. I could not help feeling a friendly attachment to this place, which every lover of the pencil must feel, as deriving from this mineral one of the best instruments of his art; the freest and readiest expositor of his ideas. We saw the site of the mine at a distance, marked with a dingy yellow stain, from the ochery mixtures thrown from it's mouth, which shiver down the sides of the mountain.
During the periodical season of working it, for it is opened only once in seven years, many people pick up a comfortable subsistence from the scraps of black-lead, which escape amongst the coarser strata. These are honest gains. But a late prolific genius in fraud took a very indirect method of possessing a share of this rich mineral. A part of the mountain, contiguous to the mine, was his property. Here, at the expence of great labour, he sank a shaft, which he carried diagonally, till he entered the mine; where, with subterraneous wickedness, he continued his depredations for some time undiscovered. At length his fraud was brought to light; and he was tried at Carlisle. The peculiarity of his case had no precedent. He saved his life; but a law was obtained by the proprietors of the mine, to defend their property from such indirect attacks for the future.
The sun was now declining, and it was too late to take a nearer view of the mine: nor indeed did it promise more on the spot, than it discovered at a distance. Besides, the beauties of Watenlath had been so strongly represented to us; that we were resolved to go in quest of those scenes, in preference to any other.
Watenlath is that tract of mountainous country( itself surrounded by mountains still higher) which coming boldly forward, breaks down abruptly from the south, upon the vale of Keswick. The stream, which forms the fall of Lodoar, adorns first the scenes of Watenlath.
" Which way to Watenlath?" said ones of our company to a peasant, as we left the vale of Borrodale. " That way," said he, pointing up a lofty mountain, steeper than the tiling of a house.
To those, who are accustomed to mountains, these perpendicular motions may be amusing: but to us, whose ideas were less elevated, they seemed rather peculiar. And yet there is something unmanly in conceiving a difficulty in traversing a path, which, we were told, the women of the country would ascend on horseback, with their panniers of eggs, and butter, and return in the night. To move upwards, keeping a steady eye on the objects before us, was no great exercise to the brain: but it rather gave it a rotation to look back on what was past-- an to see our companions below clinging, as it appeared, to the mountain's side; and the rising breasts and bellies of their horses, straining up a path so steep, that it seemed, as if the least false step would have carried them rolling many hundred yards to the bottom.
We had another apprehension; that of mistaking our way. If a mist had suddenly overspread the mountain, which is a very common incident, we might have wandered all night: for we had not the precaution to take a guide. The question we asked of the peasant, at the bottom of the mountain;" Which way to Watenlath?" we found was a very improper one. We should have asked, in what direction we were to seek it? For way there was none; except here and there a blind path; which being itself often bewildered, of course, served only to bewilder us. The inhabitants pay little attention to paths: they steer along these wilds by landmarks, which to us were unknown.
At length however, after a painful perpendicular march of near two miles, and many a breathing pause, which our horses required, we gained the top. Here we expected at least to be rewarded by an amusing prospect over the neighbouring country. But in this too we were disappointed. We found ourselves in the midst of a bog, with still higher grounds around us: so that after all our toil, we had a view only of a vile circumscribed waste.
It was our business now to get out of this unpleasant scene, as soon as we could, which was a matter of no great difficulty. An easy, and short descent, on the other side of the mountain, brought us quickly to Watenlath. Here our labours were amply rewarded. We fell into a piece of scenery, which for beauty, and grandeur, was equal, if not superior, to any thing we had yet seen.
The first object we found was a small lake, about two miles in circumference, through which flows the Lodoar, and after a course of three miles farther, forms that noble cascade, which we had seen, in the morning, at the head of Derwentwater.
The accompaniments of this river, from the lake of Watenlath to it's fall, make the scenery, of which we came hither in quest.
It is a valley so contracted, that it affords room for little more than the river, and a path, at the bottom; while the mountains, on each side, are so perpendicular, that their summits are scarce more asunder than their bases. It was a new idea. Many mountains we had seen hanging over the sides of vallies: but to be immured, through a space of almost three miles, within a chasm of rifted rocks,( for that was in fact the idea presented by the scene before us,) was a novel circumstance tho we had now been two or three days the inhabitants of mountains.
The form of this valley was very different from the valley of Borrodale. The one led us through a winding rout: the other is nearly a vista. Each hath it's mode of grandeur. The valley of Borrodale has more variety: but this is certainly the more majestic scene. The whole is only one vast effort. In point of immensity indeed it yields to the vista at the entrance into Cumberland. It is not so vast a whole: but being contracted within a smaller compass, we examine it's limits with more ease: and with regard to the grandeur and variety of the several objects, it loses nothing. As we stood under the beetling cliffs on each side, they were too near for inspection: their harsh features wanted softening: but we had noble views of them all in order, both in prospect, and retrospect. Not only the design, and composition, but the very strokes of nature's pencil might be traced through the whole scene; every fractured rock, and every hanging shrub, which adorned it, was brought within the compass of the eye: each touch so careless, and yet so determined: so wildly irregular; and yet all conducing to one whole.
When we arrived at the close of the valley, the grandeur of the scene increased. It opened into an amphitheatre, the area of which, like the valley, that led to it, was contracted; scarce containing the circumference of a mile: but the mountains, which invironed it, were grand and beautiful.
In most of the scenes we had passed, we were obliged to look for contrast in the different modes of desolation: but here barrenness was contrasted with all the tints of vegetation. The mountains in front, and on the left, were covered with wood, which mantled from the top to the bottom. Those on the right were barren; yet broken so variously, as even in themselves to make a contrast. We admire the ruins of a Roman amphitheatre: but what are the most magnificent of the works of art, compared with such an amphitheatre as this? Were the Colosseum itself brought hither, and placed within this area, the grandeur of the idea would be lost; and the ruin, magnificent as it is, would dwindle into the ornament of a scene.
At the entrance of the amphitheatre, another bridge mountain-torrent joins the Lodaor from the east, and forms it into a more considerable stream. With increased velocity,( the ground growing every step more declivous) it now pours along with great rapidity; and throwing itself into the thickest of the woods, which close the scene, disappears. The imagination pursues it's progress. It's roar is heard through the woods; and it is plain from the sound, that it suffers some great convulsion. But all is close; impervious rocks and thickets intervene, and totally exclude the sight.
We indeed had been behind the scenes; and knew we were, at that instant, upon the summit of the fall of Lodaoar: but the imagination of a stranger would be held in stimulating suspense. The grandeur of the sound would proclaim the dignity of the fall; and his eye would wish to participate of what his ear alone could inadequately judge.
Tho we had seen the fall of Lodoar from the bottom, we had a curiosity to see how it appeared from the top; and dismounting, we contrived, by winding round the thickets, and clinging to the projections of the rocks, to get a dangerous peep down the abyss. There was nothing picturesque in the view, but something immensely grand. We stood now above those two cheeks of the chasm, through which the water forced it's way; and which in the morning, when seen from the bottom, appeared towering to a great height, and were the most interesting parts of the view. But amidst the greatness of the objects, which now surrounded them they were totally lost; appearing less than warts upon those vast limbs of nature, to which they adhered.
In our passage through the valley of Watenlath, we met with many fragments of rocks, in which the several component strata were very strongly marked. In some they could not have been more regularly formed by a rule and chissel: and in a few,( whose softer lamina the weather had decayed,) as perfect cornices remained, as art could have produced.
Having taken a view of all this scenery, and the evening beginning now to close, we thought it time to put a stop to our curiosity, and return to Keswick; from which we were about four miles distant. In the morning we rode along the edge of the lake: but as we were now upon the higher grounds, we were obliged to make a compass round the mountains.
These desolate grounds are very little inhabited. We heard of a design to introduce goats among them, with a view to make Keswick as celebrated for drinking goat's - whey, as several of the mountainous parts of Scotland. In some places indeed, where there are valuable woods, the goat might be a pernicious inmate. But in many places, as we rode, the bare and craggy sides of hills seemed capable of feeding nothing else. Frequent little plots of herbage grow every where among the rocks, inaccessible to any other animal. Even sheep on many of these sloping shelves could find no footing. All this pasturage therefore is lost for want of goats to brouze it.
In a picturesque light, no ornament is more adapted to a mountainous, and rocky country, than these animals. Their colours are beautiful,( in those particularly of a darker hue) often playing into each other with great harmony. But among these animals,( as among all others) the pied are the most unpleasing; in which opposite colour come full upon each other, without any intervening tint.
The shagginess of the goat also is as beautiful, as the colours, which adorn him; his hair depending in that easy flow, which the pencil wishes to imitate.
His actions are still more pleasing. It would add new terror to a scene, to see an animal brouzing on the steep of a perpendicular rock; or hanging on the very edge of a projecting precipice. Virgil seems to have looked at these attitudes of terror with delight:
-- Ite, capellae Non ego vos posthac, viridi projectus in antro. Dumosa pendere procul de rupe videbo.
Sect. XV.

In our rout to Borrodale, we passed through the eastern, and southern parts of that mountainous country, which bounds the lake of Derwent:-- in our next expedition we proposed to view the western.
From Keswick we mounted the hills on the north-west of the lake; and, on the other side, fell into the valley of Newlands, which we traversed from end to end. It was a lovely scene, totally different from the rude vallies we had yet met with. The mountains, in general, on this side of the lake wear a smoother form, than those either in the east, or on the south. Of this smoothness of feature in the higher grounds the lower participate. The mountain vallies we had hitherto seen, were wild, rocky, and desolate. But here the idea of terror was excluded. The valley of Newlands was even adorned with beauties of luxuriant nature. We travelled through groves, which were sometimes open, and sometimes close; with a sparkling stream, the common attendant of these vallies, accompanying us, through the whole scene.
Having been amused with this sweet scenery about three miles, we entered another valley, or rather a mountain recess, called the valley of Gascadale. I call it a recess, because it is soon terminated by a mountain running athwart, which denies any further passage. Instead therefore of entering Gascadale, we were obliged to climb the hill, which forms one of it's sides: and from the summit, we had a view not only of Gascadale, but of many other mountain recesses, all which participate more or less, of the smoothness of the high grounds in their neighbourhood. Some of them were scooped, and hollowed into very beautiful forms; in which woods alone was wanting.
The valley of Gascadale had nothing to recommend it, but novelty. It was( a scene wholly new in this rugged country) a deep mountain recess, invironed on every side, except the entrance, by smooth, sloping hills, which are adorned neither with wood, nor rock, nor broken ground; but sweep down from side to side, with the greatest regularity. We scarce remembered to have seen in any place, an operation of nature more completely formal. At the head of this recess is a grand cascade. We supposed it to be no great object of beauty, as it was probably void of all accompaniments: but it's poverty hid beneath a veil. The clouds which were gathering upon the mountains, and sweeping along the vallies, began to intercept our view. Every thing was wrapped in obscurity. When we stood even on the summit of the cascade, we could only hear the torrent roar; but could not obtain the least glimpse of it, tho no object intervened. The whole valley of Gascadale smoaked like a boiling caldron; and we got our ideas of it only by catches, as the volumes of clouds dispersed, at intervals, into purer air.
But what we lost in one respect by the grossness of the atmosphere, we gained in another. Tho it is probable some views were obscured, which might have pleased us; it is equally probable, that many of those disgusting features, with which we might have been presented, were softened, and rendered more agreeable to the eye. -- Here indeed the misty hue was, in general, laid on with too full a pencil. The face of nature was rather blotted out, than obscured. The whole view was in that state, which Thomson so well describes:
-- No more the mountain fills the eye With great variety; but in a night Of gathering vapour, from the baffled sense, Sinks dark and dreary. Thence expanding wide The huge dusk gradual, swallows up the plain. Vanish the woods. The dim seen river seems Sullen and slow to rowl the misty wave.
Among the beautiful appearances of fogs, and mists, their gradually going off may be observed. A landscape takes a variety of pleasing hues, as it passes, in a retiring fog, through the different modes of obscurity into full splendor.
There is great beauty also in a fog's partially clearing up at once, as it often does; and presenting some distant piece of landscape under great radiance; when all the surrounding parts are still in obscurity. The curtain is not intirely drawn up; it is only just raised, to let in some beautiful, transient view; and perhaps falling again, while we admire, leaves us that ardent relish, which we have for pleasing objects suddenly removed. -- Some very beautiful ideas of this kind were displayed on the summits of Gascadale. Tho the mountains around us, and the contracted vallies in our neighbourhood, were all so much absorbed in the dark atmosphere of clouds and vapours; we could discover, in catches, through their thinner skirts, the vale of Keswick, at a distance, overspread with serenity and sun-shine.
The mountain, over which we passed, is called, in the language of the country, a hawse, or stoppage, in passin from one district to another; the valley being closed, and no other way left. This hawse, tho not so steep as the mountain, which led us to Watenlath, was of much longer continuance; and in some parts carried us very near the edges of precipices: but surrounded by fogs, we kept the path before us; and if there was danger, we seldom saw it.
As we began to descend, we breather a purer air; and got a sight of the landscape before us. It was a scene, unlike what we had just passed; but only, as the botanist speaks, a variety of the same genus; corresponding intirely with the character of the country, which we now traversed. Three broad mountains, sloping into each other, formed a tripartite valley, centering in one point. The surface of each mountain was smooth to it's very summit; except that, here and there, a few large stones lay scattered about: some of them fixed in the soil; but none of them deserving the appellation of a rock. Through two of the divisions of this valley ran different streams; each of them as unfringed, and simple, as the mountains they severed. These streams uniting in the centre, formed a third. The whole was a peculiar and novel scene; but neither interesting, nor picturesque.
These smooth-coated mountains, tho of little estimation in the painter's eye, are however great sources of plenty. They are the nurseries of sheep; which are bred here, and fatted in the vallies.
But the life of a shepherd, in this country, is not an Arcadian life. His occupation subjects him to many difficulties, in the winter especially, when he is often obliged to attend his flock on the bleak side of a mountain, which engages him in many a painful vigil. An when the mountains are covered with snow, which is frequently the case, his employment becomes then a dangerous one. It seldom happens, but that some part of his flock is snowed up; and preserving their lives, he must often expose his own.
After winding about two miles along the edge of one of these mountains, we dropped at once into a beautiful vale, called the vale of Butermer, the bottom of which was adorned by a lake of the same name.
This lake is small; about a mile and a half in length, and half a mile in breadth; of an oblong form; sweeping, at one end, round a woody promontory. But this sweep is rather forced; and from some points makes too acute an angle. It is one of those lines, which would have a better effect from a boat. A lower point would soften it's abruptness. In other parts also the lines of this lake are rather too square. The scenery however about it is grand, and beautiful.
 See page 96.
On the western side, a long range of mountainous declivity extends from end to end; falling every where precipitately into the water, at least it had that appearance to the eye: tho on the spot probably a margin of meadow might shoot from the bottom of the mountain, as we observed at Keswick. Of the line, which the summit of this mountain formed, we could not easily judge; as it was in a great measure hid in clouds.
The eastern side of the lake is woody; and contrasts happily with the western. But the wood is of that kind, which is periodically cut down, and was not in perfection, when we saw it.
Near the bottom of this lake, is the loftiest cascade we had ever seen. It hardly, I think, falls through a less descent than three or four hundred yards. But it is an object of no beauty; it is barren of accompaniments; and appears, at a distance, like a white ribbon bisecting the mountain. The people of the country, alluding to the whiteness of it's foam, call it sour-milk-force.
The vale of Butermer is rather confined in that part, which the lake occupies. Below, it extends a considerable way: but our rout led us first above, in quest of some rocky mountains, which are supposed to be the highest precipices in the country. These scenes, which are known by the name of Gatesgarth Dale, open at the head of the lake.
Here we found two vallies, formed by a mountain on each side, and one in the middle. The right hand valley was soon closed by a hawse: that on the left led directly to the scenes we sought.
The transition here, contrary to the usual process of nature, is abrupt. We had been travelling, all the morning, among mountains perfectly smooth, and covered with herbage; and now found ourselves suddenly among craggs and rocks, and precipices, as wild, and hideous, as any we had seen.
 Gatesgarth Dale, into which we soon entered, is indeed a very tremendous scene. Like all the vallies we had yet found, it had a peculiar character. It's features were it's own. It was not a vista like the valley of Watenlath; nor had it any of the sudden turns of the valley of Borrodale: but would slowly, and solemnly in one large segment. It was a wider also than either of those vallies; being at least half a quarter of a miles from side to side; which distance it pretty uniformly observed; the rocky mountains, which invironed it, keeping their line with great exactness; at least, never breaking out into any violent projections.
The area of this valley is, in general, concave; the sides almost perpendicular, composed of a kind of broken craggy rock, the ruins of which every where strew the valley; and five it still more the idea of desolation.
The river also, which runs through it, and is the principal supply of the lake, is as wild as the valley itself. It has no banks, but the fragments of rocks; no bed, but a channel composed of rocky strata, among which the water forces it's course. It's channel, as well as it's bank, is formed of loose stones, and fragments, which break, and divide the stream into a succession of wild, impetuous eddies.
A stream, which is the natural source of plenty, is perhaps when unaccompanied with verdure, the strongest emblem of desolations. It shews the spot to be so barren, that even the greatest source of abundance can produce nothing. The whole valley indeed joined in impressing the same idea. Fruitful nature, making in every part of her ample range, unremitting efforts to vegetate, could not here produce a single germin.
As we proceeded, the grandeur of the valley increased. We had been prepared indeed to see the highest precipices, which the country produced. Such a preface is generally productive of disappointment; but on this occasion it did no injury. The fancy had still it's scope. We found the mountains so over-hung with clouds, that we could form little judgment of their height. Our guide told us, they were twice as high, as we could see: which however we did not believe from the observations we were able to make, as the clouds, at intervals, floated past; and discovered, here and there, the shadowy forms of the rocky summits. A great height however they certaily were; and the darkness, in which they were wrapped, gave us a new illustration of the grandeur of those ideas, which arise from obscurity. " Dark, confused, uncertain images, Mr. Burk very justly observes, have a greater power on the fancy to form the grander passions, than those, which are more clear, and determinate. For hardly any thing can strike the mind with it's greatness, which does not make some sort of approach towards infinity; which nothing can do, whilst we are able to perceive it's bounds, is one, and the same thing. A clear idea therefore is another name for a little idea."
 On the sublime, and beautiful. Part Ii. Sect. Iv.
The middles of the valley is adorned, as these vallies, in some part, often are, by a craggy hill; on the top of which stands the fragment of a rock; that looks, in Ossian's language, like the stone of power-- the rude deity of desolation, to which the scene is sacred.
This valley is not more than six miles from the black-lead mines; and would have led us to them, if we had pursued it's course.
Having travelled about three miles in this dreary scene; and having take such a view, as we could obtain, of the bold inclosures, which contained it; we returned by the same rout we came, threading the valley, and skirting the lake along it's eastern coast, till we arrived at the bottom of it. Here we fell into a country very different from that we had left.
The vale of Butermer, which extends many miles below the lake, is a wide, variegated scene, full of rising and falling ground; woody in many parts; well inhabited in some; fruitful, and luxuriant in all.
Here we found a village, where we made a luxurious repast, as usual, on eggs and milk; and met, in the chearful and health looks of the inhabitants, new proofs of the narrow limits, in which all the real wants of life are comprized.
Observations On Several Parts of England, Especially The Lakes,& c. 
Sect. Xvi.

Having refreshed ourselves, and our horses, after a fatiguing morning, we proceeded along the vale of Butermer; and following the course of the river, as far as the inequalities of the ground would admit, we soon came to another lake, still more beautiful, than that we had left above. The two lakes bear a great resemblance to each other. Both are oblong: both wind round promontories; and both are surrounded by mountains. But the lower lake is near a mile longer, than the upper; the lines it forms are much easier; and tho it has less wood on it's banks, the loss is compensated by a richer display of rocky scenery. The forms of these rocks are in general, beautiful; most of them being broken into a grand square surfaces. This species, as we have already observed, are in a greater style, than the cragg, which is shattered into more diminutive parts.
 See Page, 108.
With this rocky scenery much hilly ground is intermixed. Patches of meadow also, here and there, on the banks of the lake, improve the variety. Nothing is wanting but a little more wood, to make this lake, and the vale in which it lies, a very inchanting scene: or rather a succession of inchanting scenes: for the hills and rising grounds, into which it every where swells, acting in due subordination to the grand mountains, which inviron the whole vale, break and separate the area of it into smaller parts. Many of these form themselves into little vallies, and other recesses, which are very picturesque.
Not far from the lake the mountain of Grasmer appears rising above all the mountains in it's neighbourhood. A lake of this name we had already seen in our road between Ambleside, and Keswick; but there is no connection between the lake, and the mountain.
This mountain forms rather a vast ridge, than a pointed summit: and is connected with two or three other mountains of inferior dignity: itself is said to be equal to Skiddaw; which is the common gage of altitude through the whole country; and therefore may be supposed the highest. No mountain aspires to be higher than Skiddaw: some boast an equal height: but two or three only have real pretensions.
Grasmer, and the mountains in it's neighbourhood, form the eastern boundary of the vale, which we now traversed; a vale at least five miles in length, and one third of that space in breadth. Our road carried us near the village of Brackenthwait, which lies at the bottom of Grasmer.
Here we had an account of an inundatation occasioned by the bursting of a water-spout. The particulars, which are well authenticated, are curious. But it will be necessary first to exhibit the geography of the mountain.
In that part, where Grasmer is connected with the other high lands in it's neighbourhood, three little streams take their origin; of which the Lissa is the least inconsiderable. The course of this stream down the mountain is very steep, and about a mile in length. It's bed, which is a deep gully, and the sides of the mountain all around, are profusely spread with loose stones, and gravel. On leaving the mountain, the Lissa divides the vale, through which we now passed; and, after a course of four or five miles, joins the Cocker.
On the 9th of September 1760, about midnight, the water-spout fell upon Grasmer, nearly, as was conjectured, where the three little streams, just mentioned, issue from their fountains.
At first it swept the whole side of the mountain, and charging itself with all the rubbish it found there, made it's way into the vale, following chiefly the direction of the Lissa. At the foot of the mountain it was received by a piece of arable ground; on which it's violence first broke. Here it tore away trees, soil, and gravel; and laid all bare, many feet in depth, to the naked rock. Over the next ten acres it seems to have made an immense roll; covering them with so vast a bed of stones; that no human art can every again restore the soil
When we saw the placed, tho twelve years after the even, many marks remained, still flagrant, of this scene of ruin. We saw the natural bed of the Lissa, a mere contracted rivulet; and on it's banks the vestiges of a stony channel, spreading far and wide, almost enough to contain the waters of the Rhine, or the Danube. It was computed from the flood-marks, that in many parts the stream must have been five or six yards deep; and near a hundred broad; and if it's great velocity be added to this weight of water, it's moment will be found equal to almost any effect.
On the banks of this stony channel, we saw a few scattered houses, a part of the village of Brackenthwait, which had a wonderful escape. They stood at the bottom of Grasmer, rather on a rising ground; and the current, taking it's first direction towards them, would have undermined them in a few moments,( for the soil was instantly laid bare) had not a projection of native rock, the interior stratum, on which the houses had unknowingly been founded, resisted the current, and given it a new direction. Unless this had intervened, it is probable, these houses, and all the inhabitants of them( so instantaneous was the ruin) had been swept away together.
In passing farther along the vale, we saw other marks of the fury of the inundation; where, bridges had been thrown down, houses carried off, and woods rooted up. But it's effects upon a stone-causeway were thought the most surprizing. This fabric was of great thickness; and supported, on each side, by an enormous bank of earth. The memory of man could trace it, unaltered in any particular, near a hundred years: but by the soundness and firmness of it's parts and texture, it seemed as if it had stood for ages. It was almost a doubt, whether it were a work of nature, or of art. This massy mole the deluge not only carried off; but, as if it turned it into sport, made it's very foundations the channel of it's own stream.
Having done all this mischief, not only here, but in many other parts, the Lissa threw all it's waters into the Cocker, where an end was put to it's devastation: for tho the Cocker was unable to contain so immense an increase; yet as it flows through a more level country, the deluge spread far and wide, and wasted it's strength in one vast, stagnant inundation.
Having passed through the vale of Butermer, we entered another beautiful scene, the vale of Lorton.
This vale, like all the past, presents us with a scene intirely new. No lakes, no rocks are here, to blend the idea of dignity, and grandeur with that of beauty. All is simplicity, and repose. Nature, in this scene, lays totally aside her majestic frown, and wears only a lovely smile.
The vale of Lorton is of the extended kind, running a considerable way between mountains, which range at about a mile's distance. They are near enough to screen it from the storm; and yet not so impending as to exclude the sun. Their sides, tho not smooth, are not much diversified. A few knolls and hollows just give a little variety to the broad lights and shades, which over-spread them.
This vale, which enjoys a rich soil, is in general a rural, cultivated scene; tho in many parts the ground is beautifully broken, and abrupt. A bright stream, which might almost take the name of a river, pours along a rocky channel; and sparkles down numberless little cascades. It's banks are adorned with wood; and varied with different objects; a bridge; a mill; a hamlet; a glade over-hung with wood; or some little sweet recess; or natural vista, through which the eye ranges, between irregular trees, along the windings of the stream.
Except the mountains, nothing in all this scenery is great; but every part is filled with those sweet engaging passages of nature, which tend to sooth the mind, and instill tranquility.
-- The passions to divine repose Persuaded yield: and love and joy alone Are waking: love and joy, such as await An angel's meditation--
Scenes of this kind,( however pleasing) in which few objects occur, either of grandeur or peculiarity, in a singular manner elude the powers of verbal description. They almost elude the power of colours. The soft and elegant form of beauty is hard to hit: while the strong, harsh feature is a mark, which every pencil can strike.
But tho a peculiar difficulty attends the verbal description of these mild, and quiet haunts of nature; yet undoubtedly all her scenery is ill-attempted in language.
Mountains, rocks, broken ground, water, and wood, are the simple materials, which she employs in all her beautiful pictures: but the variety and harmony, with which she employs them, are infinite. In description these words stand only for general ideas: on her charts each is detailed into a thousand varied forms. Words may give the great outlines of a scene. They can measure the dimensions of a lake. They can hang it's sides with wood. They can rear a castle on some projecting rock: or place an island near this, or the other shore. But their range extends no farther. They cannot mark the characteristic distinctions of each scene-- the touches of nature-- her living tints-- her endless varieties, both in form and colour. -- In a word, all her elegant peculiarities are beyond their reach. Language is equally unable to convey these to the eye; as the eye is to convey the various divisions of sound to the ear.
The pencil, it is true, offers a more perfect mode of description. It speaks a language more intelligible; and describes the scene in stronger, and more varied terms. The shapes, and hues of objects it delineates, and marks, with more exactness. It gives the lake the louring shade of tempest; or the glowing blush of sun-set. It spreads a warmer, or a colder tint on the tufts of the forest. It adds form to the castle; and tips it's shattered battlements with light. -- But all this, all that words can express, or even the pencil describe, are gross, insipid substitutes of the living scene. We may be pleased with the description, and the picture: but the soul can feel neither, unless the force of our own imagination aid the poet's, or the painter's art; exalt the idea; and picture things unseen.
Hence it perhaps follows, that the perfection of the art of painting is not so much attained by an endeavour to form an exact resemblance of nature in a nice representation of all her minute parts, which we consider as almost impracticable, ending generally in flatness, and insipidity; as by aiming to give those bold, those strong characteristic touches, which excite the imagination; and lead it to form half the picture, itself. Painting is the art of deceiving; and it's great perfection lies in the exercise of this art.
 This is not at all inconsistent with what is said in the 119th page. Here we speak chiefly of the detail of nature's works: there of the composition. The nearer we approach the character of nature in every mode of imitation, no doubt the better: yet still there are many irregularities and deformities in the natural scene, which we may wish to correct-- that is, to correct, by improving one part of nature by another.
Hence it is that genius, and knowledge are as requisite in surveying a picture, as in painting one. The cold, untutored eye,( tho it may enjoy the real scene,( be it history, landscape, or what it will) is unmoved at the finest representation. It does not see an exact resemblance of what it sees abroad; and having not internal pencil, if I may so speak, to work within; it is utterly unable to administer a picture to itself. Whereas the learned eye, versed equally in nature, and art, easily compares the picture with it's archetype: and when it finds the characteristic touches of nature, the imagination immediately takes fire; and glows with a thousand beautiful ideas, suggested only by the canvas. When the canvas therefore is so artificially wrought, as to suggest these ideas in the strongest manner, the picture is then most perfect. This is generally best done by little labour, and great knowledge. It is knowledge only, which inspires that free, that fearless, and determined pencil, so expressive in a skilful hand. As to the minutiae of nature, the picturesque eye will generally suggest them better itself; and yet give the artist, as he deserves, the credit of the whole.
 History Painting is certainly the most elevated species. Nothing exalts the human mind so much, as to see the great actions of our fellow-creatures brought before the eye. But this pleasure we seldom find in painting. So, much is required from the history-painter, so intimate a knowledge both of nature and art, that we rarely see a history-piece, even from the best masters, that is able to raise raptures. We may admire the colouring, or the execution; or some under-part; but the soul is seldom reached. The imagination soars beyond the picture. In the inferior walks of painting, where less is required, more of course is performed: and tho we have few good pictures in history, we have many in portrait, in landscape, in animal-life, dead-game, fruit, and flowers. History painting is a mode of epic; and tho the literary world abounds with admirable production in the lower walks of poetry, an epic is the wonder of an age.
The admirers of painting may be divided into two classes:-- The inferior admirer values himself on distinguishing the master-- on knowing the peculiar touch of each pencil; and the ruling tint of every pallet. But he has no feeling. If the picture be an original, or if it be in the master's best manner( which may be the case of many a bad picture) it is the object of his veneration; tho the story be ill-told, the characters feebly marked, and a total deficiency appear in every excellence of the art.
The more liberal professor,( and who alone is here considered as capable of administring a picture to himself) thinks the knowledge of names,( any further than as it marks excellence, till we get a better criterion,) is the bane of the art he admires. A work, worthy of admiration, may be produced by an inferior hand; and a paltry composition may escape from a master. He would have the intrinsic merit of a work, not any arbitrary stamp proclaim it's excellence. In examining a picture, he leaves the name entirely out of the question. It may mislead, it cannot assist, his judgment. The characters of nature, and the knowledge of art, are all he looks for: the rest, be they Guido's, Carrache's, or Raphael's, he despises as the bubbles of picture-dealers; the mere sweepings, and refuse of Italian garrets.
We sometimes indeed see pictures highly finished, and yet full of spirit. They will bear a nice examination at hand, and yet lose nothing of their distant effect. But such pictures are so exceedingly rare, that I should think, few painters would in prudence attempt a laboured manner. Indeed, as pictures are not designed to be seen through a microscope, but at a proper distance, it is labour thrown away.
 In the higher walks of painting I know of no artist, who does not lose his spirit in attempting to finish highly. In the inferior walks we have a few. Among the first we may rank Van Huysum, who painted flowers, and fruits, with equal labour and spirit. And yet even here, I own I have more pleasure in helping myself to these delicacies from the bolder works of Baptiste.
Hence it is that even a rough sketch, by the hand of a master, will often strike the imagination beyond the most finished work. I have seen the learned eye pass unmoved along rows of pictures by the cold, and inanimate pencil of such a master as Carlo Marat; and start astonished, when it came to a sketch of Rubens. In one case the painter endeavouring in vain to administer every thing by giving the full roundness, and smoothness to every part, instead of the bold, characteristic touches of nature, had done too much: in the other, tho the work was left unfinished, yet many of the bold characteristic touches being thrown in, enough was done to excite the imagination of the spectator, which could easily supply the rest.
A very ingenious writer indeed gives another reason for our being better pleased with a sketch, than with a finished piece. The imagination, says he, is entertained with the promise of something more; and does not acquiesce in the present object of the sense. But this observation, I think is scarce founded on truth. It is true the imagination does not acquiesce in the present object of the sense: but, I should suppose, not because it is entertained with a promise of something more; but because it has the power, of creating something more itself. If a promise of something more, were the cause of this pleasure, it should seem, that a sketch, in it's rudest form, would be more pleasing, than when it is more advanced: for the imagination must have still higher entertainment in proportion to the largeness of the promise. But this is not the case. The sketch, in it's naked chalk-lines, affects us little in comparison. The instrument must be turned higher, to excite vibrations in the imagination.
 Burke on the sublime and beautiful, Part Ii. Sect. Xi.
Again, on the same supposition, one would imagine, that the rude beginning, or rough plan of a house, would please us more than the compleat pile; for the imagination is entertained with the promise of something more. But, I believe, no one was ever so well pleased with an unfinished shell, amidst all it's rubbish of scaffolding, paper-windows, and other deformities; as with a structure compleat in all it's members, and set off with all it's proper decorations. -- But on the supposition I have ventured to suggest, we see why the sketch may please beyond the picture; tho the unfinished fabric disappoints. An elegant house is a compleat object. The imagination can rise no higher. It receives full satisfaction. But a picture is not an object itself; but only the representation of an object. We may easily therefore conceive, that it may fall below it's archetype; and also below the imagination of the spectator, whose fancy may be more picturesque, than the hand of the artist, who composed the picture. In this case, a sketch may afford the spectator more pleasure, as it gives his imagination freer scope; and suffers it to compleat the artist's imperfect draught from the fund of it's own richer, and more perfect ideas.
The variety of scenes, which nature exhibits; and their infinite combinations, and peculiarities, to which neither language, nor colours, unaided by imagination, can, in any degree, do justice; gave occasion to these remarks, which have carried me perhaps too far into digression.
We had to regret, that we saw the vale of Lorton only in half it's beauty. It was at too late an hour; and the evening besides was dark. The morning had been cloudy; in some part of it rather tempestuous; and we thought ourselves then very happy in the disposition of the weather: for as we had before seen the mountains in a clear atmosphere; it was a desirable variety to see the grand effects they produced in a storm. A mountain is nan object of grandeur; and it's dignity receives new force by mixing with the clouds; and arraying itself in the majesty of darkness. Here the idea of infinity produces strongly the sublime. But the chearful scenes of such a vale as this, pretend not to dignity: they are mere scenes of tranquillity. The early blush of dawn, the noon-tide shade, or evening-glow, are the circumstances, in which they most rejoice: a storm, in any shape, will injure them. Here therefore we might have dispensed with more light, and sunshine. Or at the close of day we might have wished for a quiet, tranquil hour, when the glimmering surfaces of things are sometimes perhaps more pleasing-- at all times certainly more soothing, than images of the brightest hue:
 See Page, 228.
When through the dusk obscurely seen Sweet evening-objects intervene.
The evening, which grew more tempestuous, began to close upon us, as we left the more beautiful parts of the vale of Lorton. We were still about six miles from Keswick; and had before us a very wild country, which probably would have afforded no great amusement even in full day: but amid the obscurity, which now overspread the landscape, the imagination was left at large; and painted many images, which perhaps did not really exist, upon the dead colouring of nature. Every great and pleasing form, whether clear, or obscure, which we had seen during the day, now played, in strong imagery before the fancy: as when the grand chorus ceases, ideal music vibrates in the ear.
In one part, a view pleased us much; tho perhaps, in stronger light, it might have escaped notice. The road made a sudden dip into a little, winding valley; which being too abrupt for a carriage, was eased by a bridge: and the form of the arch appeared to be what we commonly find in Roman aquaducts. The winding road; the woody valley, and broken ground below; the mountain beyond; the form of the bridge, which gave a classic air to the scene; and the obscurity, which melted the whole into one harmonious mass; made all together a very pleasing view.
But it soon grew too dark even for the imagination to roam. It was now ten o'clock: and tho in this northern climate, the twilight of a clear summer-evening affords even at that late hour, a bright effulgence; yet now was all dark.
-- A faint, erroneous ray Glanced from the imperfect surfaces of things, Threw half an image on the straining eye. While wavering woods, and villages, and streams, And rocks, and mountain-tops, that long retained The ascending gleam, were all one swimming scene, Uncertain if beheld--
We could just discern, through the dimness of the night, the shadowy forms of the mountains, sometimes blotting out half the sky, on one side; and sometimes winding round, as a gloomy barrier on the other.
Often too the road would appear to dive into some dark abyss, a cataract roaring at the bottom: while the mountain-torrents on every side rushed down the hills in notes of various cadence, as their quantities of water, the declivities of their fall, their distances, or the intermission of the blast, brought the sound fuller, or fainter to the ear; which organ became now more alert, as the imagination depended rather on it, than on the eye for information.
These various notes of water-music, answering each other from hill to hill, were a kind of translation of that passage in the psalms, in which one deep is represented calling another because of the noise of the water-pipes.
Among other images of the night, a lake( for the lake of Bassenthwait was now in view) appeared through the uncertainty of the gloom, like something of ambiguous texture, spreading a lengthened gleam of wan, dead light under the dark shade of the incumbent mountains: but whether this light was owing to vapours arising from the valley; or whether it was water-- and if water, whether it was an arm of the sea, a lake, or a river-- tot the uninformed traveller would appear matter of great uncertainty. Whatever it was, it would seen sufficient to alarm his apprehensions; and to raise in his fancy,( now in the quest of dangers,) the idea of something, that might stop his farther progress.
A good turnpike-road, on which we entered near the village of Lorton, and a knowledge of the country, set at naught all such ideas with us: but may easily be conceived, a that a traveller, wandering in the midst of a stormy night, in a mountainous country, unknown, and unbeaten by human footsteps, might feel palpitations of a very uneasy kind.
We have in Ossian some beautiful images, which accompany a night-storm in such a country as this. I shall subjoin, with a few alterations, an extract from them; as it will illustrate the subject before us. It is contained in a note on Croma; in which several bards are introduced entertaining their patron with their respective descriptions of the night.
The storm gathers on the tops of the mountains; and spreads it's black mantle before the moon. It comes forward in the majesty of darkness, moving upon the wings of the blast. It sweeps along the vale, and nothing can withstand it's force. The lightning from the rifted cloud flashes before it: the thunder rolls among the mountains in its rear.
All nature is restless, and uneasy.
The stag lies wakeful on the mountain-moss: the hind close by his side. She hears the storm roaring through the branches of the trees. She starts-- and lies down again.
The heath-cock lifts his head at intervals; and returns it under his wing.
The owl leaves her unfinished dirge; and sits ruffled in her feathers in a cleft of the blasted oak.
The famished fox shrinks from the storm, and seeks the shelter of his den.
The hunter alarmed, leaps from his pallet in the lonely hut. He raises his decaying fire. His wet dogs smoke around him. He half - opens his cabin-door, and looks out: but he instantly retreats from the terrors of the night.
For now the whole storm descends. The mountain-torrents join their impetuous streams. The growing river swells.
The benighted traveller pauses as he enters the gloomy dell. The glaring sky discovers the terrors of the scene. With a face of wild despair he looks round. He recollects neither the rock above, nor the precipice below. Still he urges his bewildered way. His steed trembles at the frequent flash. The thunder bursts over his head-- The torrents roar aloud. -- He attempts the rapid ford. -- Heard you that scream? -- It was the shriek of death.
How tumultuous is the bosom of the lake! The waves lash it's rocky sides. The boat is brimful in the cove. The oars are dashed against the shore.
What melancholy shade is that sitting under the tree on the lonely beach? -- I just discern it faintly shadowed out by the pale beam of the moon, passing through a thin-robed cloud. -- It is a female form. -- Her eyes are fixed upon the lake. Her dischevelled hair floats loose around her arm, which supports her pensive head. -- Ah! mourn - ful maid! dost thou still expect thy lover over the lake? -- Thou sawest his distant boat, at the close of day, dancing upon the feathery waves. -- Thy breast throbs with suspence: but thou knowest not yet, that he lies a corpse upon the shore.
Sect. Xvii.

After a wet, and story night we rejoiced to see the morning arise with all the signs of a calm and splendid day. We wished for the opportunity of surveying Ulleswater in serene, bright weather. This was the next scene we proposed to visit; and with which we intended to close our views of this picturesque country.
From Keswick we mounted a hill, on the great turnpike road to Penrith. At the summit we left our horses; and went to examine a Druid temple, in a field on the right. The diameter of this circle is thirty - two paces; which, as nearly as could be judged from so inaccurate a mode of mensuration, is the diameter of Stonehenge; which I once mea - sured in the same way. But the structures are very different; tho the diameters may be nearly equal. The stones here are Salisbury Plain. If Stonehenge were a cathedral in it's day; this circle was little more than a country church.
These structures, I suppose, are by far the most ancient vestiges of architecture( if we may call them architecture) which we have in England. Their rude workmanship hands down the great barbarity of the times of the Druids: and furnishes strong proof of the savage nature of the religion of these heathen priests. Within these magical circles we may conceive any incantations to have been performed; and any rites of superstition to have been celebrated. It is history, as well as poetry, when Ossian mentions the circles of stones, where our ancestors, in their nocturnal orgies, invoked the spirits which rode upon the winds-- the awful forms of their deceased forefathers; through which, he sublimely tells us, the stars dimly twinkled.
As singular a part as the Druids make in the ancient history, not only of Britain, but of other countries, I know not, that I ever saw any of their transactions introduced as the subject of a capital picture. They the can furnish a fund of excellent imagery for poetry we know: and I see not why the scenes of Caractacus might not be as well suited to picturesque, as dramatic representation. -- And yet there is a difference. The drama depends at least as much on sentiment, as on representation. Whereas the picture depends intirely on the latter. The beautiful sentiments of the poet are lost; and the spectator must make out the dialogue, as he is able, from the energetic looks of the figures. -- Hence therefore it follows, that the same subjects are not equally calculated to shine in poetry, and in painting.
Those subjects, no doubt, are best adapted to the pencil, which tell themselves by action. In general, however, all animated stories, which admit either of strong action, or passion, are judiciously chosen. Unanimated subjects have little chance of producing an effect; parti - cularly love-stories; which, of all others, I could wish to exclude from canvas. The language of love is so difficult to translate, that I know not that I ever saw a representation of lovers, who were not strongly marked with the character of simpletons.
But besides such subjects, as admit of strong action, or passion, there are other of a more inanimate cast, which, through the peculiarity of the characters, of which they consist, can never be mistaken. Such is the settlement of Pensylvania, painted by Mr. West. From the mixture of English, and Indian characters, and a variety of apposite appendages, the story is not only well told; but, as every picturesque story should be told, it is obvious at sight.
Among subjects of this kind, are those, which occasioned this digression-- druidical subjects. I know few of the less animated kind, which would admit more picturesque embellishment, than a Druid Sacrifice. The peculiar character, and savage features of these barbarous priests-- their white, flowing vestments-- the branch of misleto, which they hold-- the circular stones( if they could be brought into composition)-- the spreading oak-- the alter beneath it-- and the milk-white steer-- might all together form a good picture.
I have often admired an etching by Teipolo, which I have always conceived to be a representation of this subject. He does not indeed introduce all the circumstances of a Druid Sacrifice, which I have here enumerated: but the characters are such, as exactly suit the subject; and the whole seems to be an excellent illustration of it.
 It is contained in a book of etchings on emblematical subjects.
After we left the temple of the Druids, we met with little which engaged our attention, till we came to the vale of St. John. This scene appeared from the stand, where we viewed it, to be a circular area, of about six, or seven miles in circumference. It is surrounded intirely by mountains; and is watered by a small river, called the Grata.
The vale of St. John is esteemed one of the most celebrated scenes of beauty in the country: but it did not answer our expectation. The ground, consisting of patches of fenced meadow, adorned with farm-houses, and clumps of trees, was beautifully tumbled about in many parts: but the whole was rather rich, than picturesque: and on this account, I suppose, it hath obtained it's celebrity. It's circular form, every where within the scope of the eye, wanted that variety, which the winding vale affords; where one part is continually receding from another in all the pleasing gradations of perspective.
 See the same idea applied to water, page 184.
The kind of scenery here, is much the same, as in the vale of Lorton: both are composed of rural objects; but these objects are differently presented. In the vale of Lorton, the houses, and hamlets, seated on a wandering stream, are confined to the same level; and appear of course, one after another, as so many little separate scenes. Here they are scattered about the inequalities of the ground, through the area of a vale, circular at least in appearance; and offer the eye too much at once-- a confusion, rather than a suc - cession, of scenery. I speak however only of the general appearance of the vale: it contains undoubtedly many beautiful scenes, if we had had time to explore them.
The plan, or ground-plot, of the vale of Tempe was somewhat similar to this of St. John. Nature seems in both to have wrought on the same model; excepting only that the furniture of that very celebrated scene of antiquity was more picturesque.
The vale of Tempe, like this, was circular, and incompassed with mountains. But it's area was composed of level lawns,( at least, we suppose, not rising uniformly before the eye,) interspersed with wood; which in many parts was thick, and close; and must every where have intercepted some portion of the mountain-line, and broken the regularity of a circular shape.
The mountains too in Tempe were of a more beautiful structure; abrupt, hung with rock, and finely adorned with wood. -- At the head of the vale was a grand, rocky chasm, shaded with a profusion of wood scenery; through which the whole weight of the River Peneus forced it's way, with a tremendous sound; and having been dashed into foam and vapours by the fall, reunited it's strength at the bottom, and poured through the vale in a wild, impetuous torrent, roaring over rocks and shelves, till it found an exit, through the folding of the mountains on the opposite side.
Elian indeed tells us, that the stream was smooth: but as Ovid's description is more picturesque, the reader will give me leave to consider his authority as more decisive. His view of Tempe is very noble: but as he meant principally to describe the palace of a river god, which lay among the caverns, and recesses of the rocky chasm at the entrance of the vale, his subject naturally led him to dwell chiefly on the cascade, which was undoubtedly the greatest ornament of the place.
Est nemus AEmoniae, praerupta quod undique claudia Silva: vocant Tempe: per quae Peneus ab imo Essusus Pindo, spumosis volvitur undis; Dejectuque gravi renues agitantia fumos Nubila conducit; summasque aspergine silvas Impluit:& sonitu plus quam vicina fatigat. Haec domus, hae sedes, haec sunt penetralia magni Amnis: in hoc residens facto de cautibus antro, Undis jura dabat. --
A vale thus circumstanced is so pleasing, that other poets have seized the idea in their descriptions. I could multiply quotations: but I shall select two, in which the same subject is treated in a different manner. In one the natural grandeur of the scene is softened by little circumstances of chearfulness: in the other, it strikes in the full majesty of the sublime. The former is more the vale of St. John: the latter approaches nearer the idea of the Thessalian vale.
Into a forest far they thence him led, Where was their dwelling in a pleasant glade, With mountains round about invironed, And mighty woods that did the valley shade, And like a stately theatre it made, Spreading itself into a spacious plain. And in the midst a little river played Amongst the pumy stones, which seemed to plain, With gentle murmur that is course they did restrain.
-- The hills Of AEta, yielding to a fruitful vale, Within their range half - circulating had inclosed A fair expanse in verdure smooth. The bounds Were edged by wood, overhung by hoary cliffs, Which from the clouds bent frowning. Down a rock, Above the loftiest summit of the grove, A tumbling torrent wore the shagged stone; Then gleaming through the intervals of shade, Attaired the valley, where the level stream Dissused refreshment--The vale of St. John was, some years ago, the scene of one of those terrible inundations, which wasted lately the vale of Brackenthwait. I shall relate the circumstances of it, as they were given to me on the spot: but as we had them not perhaps on the best authority, they may, in some particulars, be overcharged.
It was on the 22d of August 1749, that this disaster happened. That day, which had been preceded by weather uncommonly close and sultry; set in with a gloomy aspect. The blackness gathered, more, and more, from every quarter. The air was hot beyond sufferance. The whole atmosphere, and every thing around was in a state of perfect stagnation. Not a leaf was in motion.
In the mean time, the inhabitants of the vale heard a strange noise in various parts around them: but whether it was in the air, or whether it arose from the mountains, they could not ascertain. It was like the hollow murmur of a rising wind, among the tops of trees. This noise( which in a smaller degree is not an uncommon prelude to a storm) continued without intermission about two hours; when a tempest of wind, and rain, and thunder, and lightning succeeded; which was violent, beyond any thing, remembered in former times; and lasted, without pause, near three hours.
During this storm the cataract fell upon the mountain, on the north of the vale; or as some people thought, tho should suppose without any probability, burst from the bowels of it. The side of that mountain is a continued precipice, through the space of a mile. This whole tract, we were told, was covered, in an instant, with one continuous cascade of roaring torrent( an appearance, which must have equalled the fall of Niagara) sweeping all before it from the top of the mountain to the bottom. There, like that other inundation, it followed the channel of the brooks it met with; and shewed similar effects of it's fury.
One of these effects was astonishing. The fragments of rock, and deluges of stone, and sand, which were swept from the mountain by the torrent, choked on the streams, which received it at the bottom. The water, thus pent up, and receiving continually vast accession of strength, after rolling sullenly about that part of the vale in frightful whirl-pools, at length forced a new channel through a solid rock, which we were informed, it disjointed in some fracture crevice, and made a chasm at least ten feet wide. Many of the fragments were carried to a great distance; and some of them were so large, that a dozen horses could scarce move them. We were sorry afterwards, that we had not seen this remarkable chasm: but we had not time to go in quest of it.
From the vale of St. John we ascended a steep hill, called Branthwait Cragg; where being obliged to leave the great road in our way to Ulleswater, and investigate a pathless desert over the mountains, which invironed us; we put ourselves under the conduct of a guide.
These mountains were covered with a profusion of huge stones, and detached rocks; among which we found many old people, and children, from the neighbouring villages, gathering a species of white lychen, that grows upon the craggs; and which we heard had been found very useful in dying a murray-colour.
Among the difficulties of our rout over these mountains, the bogs and morasses we met with, were the most troublesome. We were often obliged to dismount; and in some parts the surface could hardly bear a man. Where rushes grew, our guide informed us, the ground was firmest. We endeavoured therefore, as much as possible, to make the little tussocks of these plants the basis of our footsteps. But as we could not convey this intelligence to our horses, they often plunged very deep.
In several parts of our ride, we had a view of that grand cluster of mountains, which forms a circle in the heart of Cumberland; and makes a back ground to the central views from almost every part of the extremities of that county. These mountains unite on the south with those of Westmoreland. The side next us was composed of Skiddaw-- Threlkate - fell, a part of which is called Saddle Back-- and Grisedale Fell. As we rode nearer the northern limit of this chain, Skiddaw, which is by much the highest mountain, appeared, in perspective, the least. Behind these mountains arise, in order, Mosedale Fell-- Carric-- and Caudbeck-- the tops of which we sometimes saw, from the higher grounds, peering, in their blue attire, over the concave parts of the browner mountains, which stood nearer the eye.
Between us, and this circular chain, which occupied the whole horizon on the left, was spread a very extensive vale; stretching from side to side hardly less than seven or eight miles; and in length winding out of sight. It is a scene of little beauty, except what arises from the gradation of distance: but it suggests and idea of greatness; which space, and grand boundaries, however unadorned, will always suggest.
This idea hath sometimes misled the tasteless improver of little scenes. He has heard, that space gives beauty; but not knowing how to accommodate the rule to circumstances, he often shews all that is to be seen; when, in fact, he should have hid half of it, as a deformity. Mere space gives the idea of grandeur, rather than of beauty. Such an idea the ocean presents. But a little scene cannot present it. Grandeur therefore is not attained by attempting it; while beauty is often lost.
Along this vale ran the great road we had just left; which was no little ornament to it. The mazy course of a river is a still nobler object of the same kind: but a great road is no bad substitute; and is in some respects superior. The river being on a level, and contained without banks, is generally too much hid, unless it be viewed from an elevated point: but the road following the inequalities of the ground, is easily traced by the eye, as it winds along the several elevations and depressions it meets with; and has therefore more variety in it's course.
On the right, forming the other side of this extensive vale, arise several very high mountains; among which Hara Side, and White Pike are the most magnificent. At the bottom of these, verging towards the skirts of the vale, are other hills less formidable: but two of them, called the Mell Fells, are very remarkable; being shaped like earthen graves, in a country church-yard.
A little before we approached the Mull Fells, the path we pursued, led us under a towering rocky hill, which is known by the name of Wolf's - cragg, and is probably one of the monuments of this animal remaining in Britain. It is a fortress intirely adapted to a garrison of wolves; from whence they might plunder the vale, which was spread before them; and make prey of every thing, as far as the eye could reach. Such a scene, in painting, would be highly characterized by such appendages. It would have pleased Ridinger. If that picturesque naturalist had been in quest of a wolf-scene, he could not have found a better.
When we had passed this range of mountains, we got more into a beaten path, leading to the village of Matterdale, about a mile only from Ulleswater; which was still intirely excluded from our sight by high grounds. Here we dismissed our guide, and were directed into Gobray Park, which is the northern boundary of the lake.
This part of the country we found well inhabited; and the roads, at this season, much frequented. It was about the time of a statute-fair; when the young people of the country leave their old services, and go to their new and we were not a little entertained with the simplicity, and variety of the several groups and figures we met, both on horseback, and on foot.
These are the picturesque inhabitants of a landscape. The dressed-out figures, and gaudy carriages, along the great roads of the capital, afford them not. The pencil rejects with indignation the splendor of art. In grand scenes, even the peasant cannot be admitted, if he be employed in the low occupations of his profession: the spade, the scythe, and the rake are all excluded.
Moral, and picturesque ideas do not always coincide. In a moral light, cultivation, in all it's parts, is pleasing; the hedge, and the furrow; the waving corn field, and the ripened sheaf. But all these, the picturesque eye, in quest of scenes of grandeur, and beauty, looks at with disgust. It ranges after nature, untamed by art, and bursting wildly into all it's irregular forms.
-- Juvat arva videre Non rastris hominum, non ulli abnoxia curae
It is thus also in the introduction of figures. In a moral view, the industrious mechanic is a more pleasing object, than the loitering peasant. But in a picturesque light, it is otherwise. The arts of industry are rejected; and even idleness, if I may so speak, adds dignity to a character. Thus the lazy cow-herd resting on his pole; or the peasant lolling on a rock, may be allowed in the grandest scenes; while the laborious mechanic, with his impliments of labour, would be repulsed. The fisherman, it is true, may follow his calling upon the lake: but he is indebted for this privilege, not to his art; but to the picturesque apparatus of it-- his boat, and his nets, which qualify his art. They are the objects: he is but an appendage. Place him on the shore, as a single figure, with his rod, and line; and his art would ruin him. In a chearful glade, along a purling brook, near some mill, or cottage, let him angle, if he please: in such a scene the picturesque eye takes no offence. But let him take care not to introduce the vulgarity of his employment in a scene of grandeur.
At the same time, we must observe, that figures, which thus take their importance merely from not mixing with low, mechanic arts, are at best only picturesque appendages. They are of a negative nature, neither adding to the grandeur of the idea, nor taking from it. They merely and simply adorn a scene.
The characters, which are most suited to these scenes of grandeur, are such as impress us with some idea of greatness, wildness, or ferocity; all which touch on the sublime.
Figures in long, folding draperies; gypsies; banditti; and soldiers,-- not in modern regimentals; but as Virgil paints them,
-- longis adnixi hastis, et scuta tenentes;
are all marked with one or other of these characters: and mixing with the magnificence, wildness, or horror of the place, they properly coalesce; and reflecting the same images, add a deeper tinge to the character of the scene.
For the truth of all these remarks I might appeal to the decisive judgment of Salvator Rosa; who seems to have thoroughly studied propriety in figures, especially in scenes of grandeur. His works are a model on this head. We have a book of figures, particularly composed for scenery of this kind, and etched by himself. In this collection there is great variety, both in the characters, groups, and dresses: but I do not remember, either there, or in any other of his works, a low, mechanic character. All his figures are either of( what I have called) the negative kind; or marked with some trait of greatness, wildness, or ferocity. Of this last species his figures generally partook: his grand scenes being inhabited chiefly by banditti.
I met with a passage, not a little illustrative of these remarks on figures, in the travels of Mr. Thickness through Spain.
" The worst sort of beggars, says he, in Spain are the troops of male, and female gypsies. They are of the genuine breed, and differ widely from all other gypsies; and I may say, from all other human beings. I often met troops of these people; and when an interview happens in roads very distant from towns, or dwellings, it is not very pleasing;: for they ask, as if they knew they were not to be refused; and I dare say often commit murders, when they can commit them by surprize. They are extremely swarthy, with hair as black as jet; and form very picturesque groups under the shade of the rocks and trees of the Pyraenean mountains, where they spend their evenings: and live suitably to the climate; where bread, and water, and idleness, are preferable to better fare, and hard-labour."
Sect. Xvii.

On descending the hill from Matterdale, before we came to the lake, we had a beautiful specimen( as the naturalists speak) of what in this country is called a gill. The road carried us along the edge of one of it's precipices: but the chasm was so intirely filled with wood, that when we looked down, we could not see into it. Even the sun-beams, unable to enter, rested only on the tufted foliage of the trees, which grew from the sides. -- But though the eye was excluded, the ear was soothed by the harmony of an invisible torrent; whose notes, sounding along innumerable broken falls, and softened by ascending through the trees, were very melodious.
A winding road brought us to the bottom; where the torrent tumbling out of the wood, received us. We had a short view into the deep recesses of the scene, through the branches of the trees, which stretched over the stream; but we had not time, to penetrate the alluring shade.
Having passed over more high grounds, we came at length in view of the lake. The first catch of it was thus presented.
A road occupied the nearest part of the landscape, winding around a broken cliff; which rose considerably on the left. A portion of a distant mountain appeared on the right, with a small part of the lake at it's foot. The fore-ground was well-disposed; and the distant mountain, which fell into the lake, beautifully tinted. The composition, as far as it went, was very correct: but we yet saw only enough to excite our curiosity; and to give us, from the bearing of the land, a general idea of the lake.
Ulleswater is the largest lake in this country, except Windermere; being eight miles long; and about two broad in the widest part; tho, in general, it rarely exceeds a mile in breadth. It points nearly north, and south; as most of these lakes do; but being placed at an extremity of the barrier-mountains, it affords a greater variety than is exhibited by such lakes, as are invironed by them. These having few accompaniments, receive their character chiefly from the surrounding desolation. Such a lake is Wythburn. Windermere, on the other hand, Keswick, Butermer, and Ulleswater may all be called boundary-lakes. One end of each participates more of the rugged country; and the other of the cultivated: tho each end participates, in some degree, of both. A few traits of romantic scenery are added to the tameness of one end; and the native horror of the other is softened by a few chearful appendages.
The form of Ulleswater resembles a Z; only there is no angular acuteness in it's line. It spreads every where in a easy curve; beautifully broken in some parts by promontories. -- The middle reach contains in length near two thirds of the lake. The southern side is mountainous; and becomes more so, as it verges towards the west. As the mountains approach the north, they glide( as we have seen is usual in boundary-lakes) into meadows and pastures. The northern and western sides contain a great variety of woody and rocky scnes; but these also, as they approach the east, become smooth and fertilized. At the southern point, under impending mountains, lies the village of Patterdale. -- With this general idea of Ulleswater, let us return to the descent from Matterdale, where we caught the first view of it.
As we descended a little further, the whole scene of the lake opened before us; and such a scene, as almost drew from us the apostrophe of the inraptured bard,
Visions of glory, spare my aching sight!
Among all the visions of the inchanting country, we had seen nothing so beautifully sublime, so correctly picturesque as this. -- And yet I am averse to make comparisons; especially on seeing a country but once. Much depends on the circumstances of light, and weather. I would wish therefore only to say, that I was more pleased with Ulleswater, than with any lake I had seen; adding, at the same time, that we were fortunate in a concurrence of incidents, that aided it's beauty. We had hitherto seen all the lakes we had visited, under a rough, or cloudy sky: and tho their dignity was certainly increased by the circumstance; yet the beauty of a lake in splendid, serene weather, aided, at this time, by the powers of contrast, made a wonderful impression on the imagination.
" The effect of the sublime, Mr. Burke informs us, is astonishment; and the effect of beauty, is pleasure: but when the two ingredients mix, the effect, he says, is in a good measure destroyed in both. They constitute a species something different both from the sublime and beautiful, which I have before called fine: but this kind, I imagine, has not such a power on the passions, either as vast bodies have, which are endowed with the correspondent qualities of the sublime; or as the qualities of beauty have, when united in a small object. The affection produced by large bodies, adorned with the spoils of beauty, is a tention conti - nually relieved; which approaches to the nature of mediocrity."
 Sublime and beautiful, part Iv. sect. 25.
This refined reasoning does not seem intirely grounded on experience. -- I do not remember any scene in which beauty and sublimity, according to my idea, are more blended than in this: and tho Mr. Burke's ideas of beauty are perhaps more exceptionable, than his ideas od the sublime; yet it happens, that most of the qualities, which hee predicates of both, unite also in this scene. Their effect therefore, according to his argument, should be destroyed. But the feelings of every lover of nature, on viewing these scenes, I adre be bold to say, would reevolt from such reasoning.
The fore-ground of the grand view before us, is a part of Gobray Park, which belongs to the duke of Norfolk; rough, broken, and woody. Among the old oaks, which inriched it, herds of deer, and cattle grazed in groups. Beyond this is spread an extensive reach of the lake, winding round a rocky promontory on the left; which is the point of a mountain, called Martindale Fell, or Place Fell; the southern boundary of the lake. This promontory uniting with the mountain, lets it easily down into the water, as by a step. An hesitation, if I may so call it, of this kind, eases greatly the heaviness of a line. In a distance, it is of less consequence: but in all the nearer grounds, it is necessary. I speak chiefly however of those scenes, in which beauty, and grandeur are combined. In those of simple grandeur, and sublimity, as in that of Penmanmaur, for instance, in north wales, the heavy line, which is very remarkable in that scene, perhaps strengthens the effect.
Martindale Fell is intirely unplanted: but it's line, and surface are both well varied. Numberless breaks( little vallies, and knolls) give it a lightness, without injuring it's simplicity.
Such was the disposition of the objects, on the left of the lake: on the right, two woody promontories, pursuing each other in perspective, made a beautiful contrast with the smooth continuity of Martindale Fell.
In front, the distance was composed of mountains, falling gently into the lake; near the edge of which lies the village of Patterdale.
We took this view at a point, which had just so much elevation, as to give a variety to the lines of the lake. As we descended to the water, the view was still grand, and beautiful, but had lost some of it's more picturesque beauties: it had lost the fore-ground: it had lost the sweeping line round the mountain on the left: and it had lost the recess between the two woody promontories on the right. The whole margin of the lake was nearly reduced to one straight line. -- The beauty of a view, especially in lake-scenery, we have before observed, depends greatly on the nice position of it's point.
 See page 96. Vol. I.
Having spent some time in examining this very inchanting scene, we skirted the lake towards Patterdale, on a tolerable road, which runs from one end of it to the other: on the south it is continued to Ambleside; on the north, to Penrith. I call it a tolerable road; but I mean only for horses. It has not the quartering and commodious width of a carriage road.
As we left Gobray Park, we took our rout along the margin of the first of those woody promontories on the right. We were carried by the side of the lake, through close lanes, and thick groves: and yet no so thick, but that we had every where, through the openings of the trees, and windings of the road, views in front, and on the right, into woody recesses; some of which were very pleasing: and on the left, the lake and all it's distant furniture, broke frequently upon us.
After skirting the first wooded promontory, which carried us about a mile, the road turned suddenly to the right, and led us round into the second, rising a considerable height above the water. -- In this promontory, a new scene opened: the woods became intermixed with rock; and a great variety of very beautiful fore-grounds were produced. The rocks, through which the road was sometimes cut, were chiefly on our right. -- In this promon - tory also, as well as in the other, we were amused with catches of the lake, and of Martindale Fell, through the tree.
Scenes, like these, are adapted to every state of the sky. They were beautiful in the calm season, in which we saw them; and in which indeed we wished to see them. But they would have received peculiar advantages also from storm. The objects are all in that great style, which is suited to the violences of nature. The imagination would have risen with the tempest, and give a double grandeur to every awful form. -- The trees, in the mean time, which rear themselves stage above stage, upon the mountain's brow, and spread down to the very road, would have made a noble instrument for the hollow blast to sound, consisting of various notes: while the surges of the lake, resounding among the caverns, and dashing against the rocks, many fathoms below, would have aided the concert with new notes of terrific harmony.
-- There is a mood,( I sing not to the vacant and the young) There is a kindly mood of melancholy, That wings the soul, and points her to the sky. While winds, and tempests sweep the various lyre, How sweet the diapason!--
The mind is not always indeed in unison with such scenes, and circumstances, as these. When it does not happen to be so, no effect can be produced. Sometimes indeed the scene may draw the mind into unison; if it be not under the impression of any strong passion of an opposite kind; but in a sort of neutral state. The effect however will always be strongest, when the mind happens to be possessed of ideas congenial to the scene-- when, in a kindly mood of melancholy, it feels itself soother by the objects around.
But besides the music of winds are tempests, the ecchoes, which are excited in different parts of this lake, are still more grand, and affecting. More or less they accompany all lakes, that circumscribed by lofty, and rocky scenes. We found them on Windermere; we found them on Derwentwater. But every lake, being surrounded by rocks and mountains of a structure peculiar to itself, forms a variety of instruments and, of course, a variety of sounds. The ecchoes therefore of no two lakes are alike; unless they are mere monotonists.
We took notice of a very grand eccho on the western shores of the great island in Windermere: but the most celebrated ecchoes are said to be found on Ulleswater; in some of which the sound of a cannon is distinctly reverberated six, or seven times. It first rolls over the head in one vast peal. -- Then subsiding a few seconds, it rises again in a grand, interrupted burst, perhaps on the right. -- Another solemn pause ensues. Then the sound arises again on the left. -- Thus thrown from rock to rock, in a sort of aerial perspective, it is caught again perhaps by some nearer promontory; and returning full on the ear, surprizes you, after you thought all had been over, with as great a peal as at first.
But the grandest effect of this kind is produced by a successive discharge of cannon; at the interval of a few seconds between each discharge. The effect of the first is not over, when the ecchoes of the second, the third, or perhaps of the second, the third, or perhaps of the fourth, begin. Such a variety of awful sounds, mixing, and commixing, and at the same moment heard from all sides, have a wonderful effect on the mind; as if the every foundations of every rock on the lake were giving way; and the whole scene, from some strange convulsion, were falling into general ruin.
 The duke of Portland, who has property in this neighbourhood, has a vessel on the lake, with brass guns, for the purpose of exciting ecchoes.
These sounds, which are all of the terrific kind, are suited chiefly to scenes of grandeur during some moment of wildness, when the lake is under the agitation of a storm. In a calm, still evening, the gradations of an eccho, dying away in distant thunder, are certainly heard with most advantage. But that is a different idea. You attend then only to the ecchoes themselves. When you take the scene into the combination; and attend to the effect of the whole together; no doubt such sounds, as are of the most violent kind, are best suited to moments of the greatest uproar.
But there is another species of ecchoes, which are as well adapted to the lake in all it's stillness, and tranquillity, as the others are to it's wildness, and confusion: and which recommend themselves chiefly to those feelings, which depend on the gentler movements of the mind. Instead of cannon, let a few French Horns, and clarionets be introduced. Softer music than such loud wind-instruments, would scarce have power to vibrate. The effect is now wonderfully changed. The sound of a cannon is heard in bursts. It is the music only of thunder. But the continuation of musical sounds forms a continuation of musical ecchoes; which reverberating around the lake, are exquisitely melodious in their several gradations; and form a thousand symphonies, playing together from every part. The variety of notes is inconceivable. The ear is not equal to their innumerable combinations. It listens to a symphony dying away at a distance; when other melodious sounds arise close at hand. These have scarce attracted the attention; when a different mode of harmony arises from another quarter. In short, every rock is vocal, and the whole lake is transformed into a kind of magical scene; in which every promontory seems peopled by aerial beings, answering each other in celestial music.
--- How often from the steep Of ecchoing hill, or thicket, have we heard Celestial voices to the midnight air, Sole, or responsive each to other's note, Singing their great Creator? Oft in bands While they keep watch, or nightly rounding walk, With heavenly touch of instrumental sounds, In full harmonic number joined, their songs Divide the night, and lift our thoughts to heaven.
We had now almost skirted the two woody promontories in our rout to Patterdale. The conclusion is the grandest part of the whole scenery. It is a bold projection of rock finely marked, and adorned with hanging woods; under the beetling summit of which the road makes a sudden turn. This is the point of the second promontory; and, I believe, is known by the name of Stibray Cragg.
The trees which compose the whole scenery through both these promontories, are in general, oak.
From hence through lanes of the same kind, though less superbly decorated, we came to the village of Patterdale; situated on rising ground, among two or three little rivers, or branches of a river, which feed the lake. It lies in a cove of mountains, open in front to the southern reach of the lake; beyond which appear the high and woody lands of Gobray Park. The situation is magnificent.
Among the cottages of this village, there is a house, belonging to a person of a somewhat better condition; whose little estate, which he occupies himself, lies in the neighbourhood. As his property, inconsiderable as it is, is better than that of any of his neighbours, it has gained him the title of King of Patterdale, in which his family name is lost. His ancestors have long enjoyed the title before him. We had the honour of seeing this prince, as he took the diversion of fishing on the lake; and I could not help thinking, that if I were inclined to envy the situation of any potentate in Europe, it would be that of the king of Patterdale. The pride of Windsor and Versailles would shrink in a comparison with the magnificence of his dominions.
The great simplicity of this country, and that rigid temperance, and economy, which necessity injoins to all it's inhabitants, may be exemplified by the following little history.
A clergyman, of the name of Mattison, was minister of this place sixty years; and died lately at the age of ninety. During the early part of his life, his benefice brought him in only twelve pounds a year. It was afterwards increased,( I suppose by the queen's bounty,) to eighteen; which it never exceeded. On this income he married-- brought up four children-- lived comfortably among his neighbours-- educated a son, I believe, at college-- and left upwards of 1000 £. behind him.
With that singular simplicity, and inattention to forms which characterize a country like this; he himself read the burial-service over his mother; he married his father to a second wife; and afterwards buried him also. He published his own banns of marriage in the church, with a woman, whom he had formerly christened; and himself married all his four children.
From this specimen, the manners of the country may easily be conceived. At a distance from the refinements of the age, they are at a distance also from it's vices. Many sage writers, and Montesquieu in particular, have supposed these rough scenes of nature to have a great effect on the human mind: and have found virtues in mountainous countries, which were not the growth of tamer regions. Many opinions perhaps have passed current among mankind, which have less foundation in truth. Montesquieu is in quest chiefly of political virtue-- liberty-- bravery-- and the arts of bold defence: but, I believe, private virtue is equally befriended by these rough scenes. It is some happiness indeed to these people, that they have no great roads among them; and that their simple villages, on the sides of lakes, and mountains, are in no line of communication with any of the busy haunts of men. Ignorance is sometimes called the mother of vice. I apprehend it to be as often the nurse of innocence.
 Book Xviii. Ch. Ii.
Much have those travellers to answer for, whose casual intercourse with this innocent, and simple people tends to corrupt them; disseminating among them ideas of extravagance, and dissipation-- giving them a taste for pleasures, and gratifications, of which they had no ideas-- inspiring them with discontent at home-- and tainting their rough, industrious manners with idleness, and a thirst after dishonest means.
If travellers would frequent this country with a view to examine it's grandeur, and beauty-- or to explore it's varied, and curious regions with the eye of philosophy-- or, if that could be hoped, to adore the great Creator in these his sublimer works-- if, in their passage through it, they could be content with such fare as the country produces; or, at least reconcile themselves to it by manly exercise, and fatigue( for there is a time, when the stomach, and the plainest food will be found in perfect harmony)-- if they could thus, instead of corrupting the manners of an innocent people; learn to amend their own, by seeing in how narrow a compass the wants of human life may be compressed-- a journey through these wild scenes might be attended perhaps with more improvement, than a journey to Rome, or Paris. Where manners are polished into vicious refinement, simplifying is the best mode of improving; and the example of innocence is a more instructive lesson, than any that can be taught by artists, and literati.
But these scenes are too often the resort of gay company, who are under no impressions of this kind-- who have no ideas, but of extending the sphere of their amusements-- or, of varying a life of dissipation. The grandeur of the country is not taken into the question: or, at least it is no otherwise considered, than as affording some new mode of pleasurable enjoyment. Thus even the diversions of Newmarket are introduced-- diversions, one would imagine, more foreign to the nature of this country, than any other. A number of horses are carried into the middle of a lake in a flat boat. A plug is drawn from the bottom: the boat sinks, and the horses are left floating on the surface. In dif - ferent directions they make to land; and the horse, which soonest arrives, secures the prize.
Strenua nos exercet inertia: navibus atque Quadrigis petimus bene vivere. Quod petis, hic est: Est Ulubris; animus si te non desicit aeuus.
Sect. Xix.

Having spent two hours at Patterdale, in refreshing our horses, and in surveying the beauty of it's situation; we left it with regret, and set out for Penrith.
We had now the whole length of the lake to skirt; part of which we had already traversed in our rout from Gobray Park: but we felt no reluctance at taking a second view of it.
As we traversed the two woody promontories, which we had passed in the morning, we had a grand exhibition of the middle reach of the lake; which, I have observed, is by far the longest. Martindale Fell, shooting into the water, which before adorned the left of the landscape, now took it's station on the right. The left was composed of the high woody grounds about Gobray Park. -- In the center, the hills gently declining, formed a boundary at the bottom of the lake; stretching far to the east. -- As a fore-ground, we had the woods, and rocks of the two promontories, through which we passed.
Such were the outlines, and composition of the view before us; but it's colouring was still more exquisite.
The sun was now descending low, and cast the broad shades of evening athwart the landscape: while his beams, gleaming with yellow lustre through the vallies, spread over the inlightened summits of the mountains, a thousand lovely tints-- in sober harmony, where some deep recess was faintly shadowed-- in splendid hue, where jutting knolls, or promontories received the fuller radiance of the diverging ray. The air was still: the lake one vast expanse of crystal mirror. The mountain-shadows, which sometimes give the water a deep, black hue( in many circumstances, extremely picturesque;) were softened here into a mild, blue tint, which swept over half the surface. The other half received the fair impression of every radiant form, that glowed around. The inverted landscape was touched in fainter colours, than the real one. Yet it it was more than laid in. It was almost finished. The last touches alone were wanting.
What an admirable study for the pallet is such a scene as this! infinitely beyond the camera's contracted bounds. Here you see nature in her full dimensions. You are let into the very mystery-- into every artifice, of her pencil. In the reflected picture, you see the ground she lays in-- the great effects preserved-- and that veil of expressive obscurity thrown over all, in which what is done, is done so exquisitely, that if you wish the finishing touches, you wish them only by the same inimitable hand that gave sketch. Turn from the shadow to the reality, and you have them. There the obscurity is detailed. The picture, and the sketch reflect mutual graces on each other.
I dwell the longer on this scene, because during five days, which we spent in this romantic country, where we took a view of so many lakes, this was the only moment, in which we were so fortunate, as to see the water in a pure, reflecting state. Partial exhibitions of this kind we had often met with: but here we were presented with a scene of the utmost magnificence.
Having examined this very lowly landscape, so perfect both in composition, and in colouring, we proceeded in our rout along the lake.
We now re-entered Gobray Park; which afforded us, for near three miles, a great variety of beautiful scenes on the left, composed of rocky, and broken-ground, forest-trees, copse-wood, and wooded-hills: while the lake, and mountains, whose summits were now glowing with the full splendor of an evening sun, were a continued fund of varied entertainment on the right. The eye was both amused, and relieved by surveying the two different modes of scenery in succession: the broad shades, and bright diversified tints, of the distant mountains, on one side; and the beautiful forms, and objects of the fore-ground, on the other.
One part of the fore-ground was marked with singular wildness. It was a kind of rocky pass near the margin of the lake; known, I believe, by the name Yew Cragg. If Caesar had seen it, it would have struck him in a military light; and he would have described it as a defile," angustum,& difficile, inter montem,& lacum; quo vix singuli carri ducerentur. Mons altissimus impendebat; ut facile perpauci trasitum prohibere possent."
 Caes. Com. lib. I.
But our imaginations were more amused with picturesque, than military ideas. It struck us therefore merely as an object of beauty. -- It's features were these.
At a little distance from the lake, the broken side of a mountain falls abruptly to the ground in two noble tiers of rock; both which are shattered in every direction. This rocky scene was ornamented in the richest manner with wood. The road skirted the lake; and between it and the rocks, all was rough, broken-ground, intangled with brakes, and impassible. Among the rocks arose a grove of forest-trees of various height, according to the inequality of the ground. Here and there, a few scattered oaks, the fathers of the forest, reared there peeled, and withered trunks across the glade; and set off the vivid green of the more luxuriant trees. The deer starting from the brakes, as the feet of our horses approached, added new wildness to the native character of the view; while the screams of a hernery( the wildest notes in nature) allowed the ear to participate in the scene.
The illumination of this grand mass of rock was as interesting, as the composition of it. It was overspread, when we saw it, with a deep evening-shadow, with many a darker tint in the closer recesses. A mild ray, just tinged with the blush of a setting sun, tipped the summits of the trees:
While, rushing through the branches, rifted cliffs Dart their white heads, and glitter through the gloom.
Were a man disposed to turn hermit, I know not where he could fix his abode more agreeably than here. The projecting rocks would afford a sheltered situation for his cell; which would open to a scene every way fitted for meditation. He might wander along the bottom of a mountain; and by the side of a lake, almost unfrequented, except by the foot of curiosity, or of some hasty shepherd, seeking for the stragglers of his flock. Here he might enjoy the contemplation of nature in all her simplicity and grandeur. This single scene, the mere invirons of his cell, under all the varieties of light, and shade-- sun-shine, and storm-- morning, and evening, would itself afford an inexhausted fund of entertainment: while the ample tome expanded daily before his eye, would banish the littleness of life; and naturally impress his mind with great ideas.
From this wild scene we soon entered another of a different cast. It was a circular plain, about half a mile in diameter; surrounded by mountains, with an opening to the lake. The plain was smooth, but varied: the mountains, rather low, but rugged.
A valley, like this, considered as a whole, has little picturesque beauty. But a picturesque eye will find it's objects even here. It will investigate the hills, and pick out such portions, as are most pleasing. These it will form into back-grounds, and inrich the fore-ground( which can only be a plain) with cattle, trees, or other objects. -- Even such simple scenes, by the aid of judicious lights, may form pictures.
We had the same kind of scene, soon after, repeated,-- a circular valley, surrounded with mountains, tho varied in many particulars from the other. Both however were equally unadored; and as bother were capable, by a few well-chosen accompaniments, of being formed into good pictures; so likewise both were capable of being made delightful scenes in nature, by a little judicious planting; tho we must still have wished this planting to have had the growth of a century.
It is remarkable, that we find scarce any disposition of ground, that belongs to a mountainous country, of which Virgil has not taken notice. The scenes we now examined, he exactly describes: only he has given his hills the ornament of wood, which he knew was their most picturesque dress.
-- Tendit Gramineum in campum, quem collibus undique curvis Cingebant sylvae, mediaque in valle theatri Circus erat. --
Not far from these circular plains appears Gobray Hall; once the capital of these domains; but now a neglected mansion. If situation can recommend a place, this seems to enjoy one in great perfection. It stands on high ground, with higher still behind it. We did not ride up to the house; but it seemed to command a noble view of the lake, and of the scenery around it.
Nearly at the point where Ulleswater makes it's last curve, stands the village of Water - - Mullock; situated rather within the land. Through this place the road carried us to the last reach of the lake; which is the least beautiful part. Here the hills grow smooth, and lumpish; and the country, at every step, loses some of the wild strokes of nature; and degenerates, if I may so speak, into cultivation.
At the end of the lake stands Dunmallet, a remarkable hill, which overlooks the last reach; but is itself rather a disgusting object. Shaped with conic exactness; planted uniformly with Scotch firs; and cut as uniformly into walks verging to a center, it becomes a vile termination of a noble scene. -- Once probably it was more interesting; when the Roman eagle was planted, as it formerly was, upon it's summit-- when it's bold, rough sides were in unison with the objects around-- and a noble castle frowned, from it's precipices over the lake. This fortress, whose ramparts may yet easily be traced, must once have been of considerable importance, as it commanded all the avenues of the country.
We had now finished our view of Ulleswater, which contains a wonderful variety of grand, and picturesque scenes, compressed within a very narrow compass. -- In one part, not far from Water Mullock, the road carried us to the higher grounds, from whence we had a view of the whole lake, and all it's vast accompaniments together-- a troubled sea of mountains; a broken scene-- amusing, but not picturesque.
In our evening's ride, we had skirted only one side of the lake; and wished our time would have allowed us to skirt the other also. It is probable the southern coast might have afforded very noble distant views of the woods, and rocks of Gobray Park, and the adjacent loft grounds.
We could have wished also to have navigated the lake: for though views from the water, are in general less beautiful, than the same views from the land, as they want the advantage of a fore-ground, and also bring the horizon too low; yet it is probable the grand reaches of this lake, and the woody promontories, round which the water winds, would have displayed many beautiful passages from a boat.
 See Page. 96
One view from the water, we heard much commended, that of the last reach of the lake, towards the conic hill of Dunmallet. The sides of the lake-- it's gliding away into the River Eamot, which carries it off-- Poolybridge, which is thrown over that river, at the bottom of the lake-- and the country beyond-- were all much extolled: but we could not conceive, that any views, at this end of the lake, could be comparable to what we had seen near the shores of Patterdale: especially any views, in which the regular form of Dunmallet made so considerable a part.
It would have added also to our amusement, to have taken a view of the lake by moon - light. For tho it is very difficult in painting to manage so feeble an effusion of light in such a manner, as, at the same time, to illuminate objects, and produce an effect; yet the reality, in such scenes as these, is attended often with a wonderful solemnity and grandeur. That shadowy form of great objects, which is sometimes traced out by a silver thread, and sometimes by a kind of bright obscurity on a darker ground, almost oppresses the imagination with sublime ideas. Great effects also we sometimes see of light and shade, tho only faintly marked. In the absence of colour, the clair-obscur is more striking;
-- one expanded sheet of light Diffusing: while the shades from rock to rock Irregularly thrown, which solemn gloom Diversify the whole. --
I cannot leave the scenes of Ulleswater, without taking notice of an uncommon fish, which frequents it's waters; and which is equally the object of the naturalist, and of the epicure. It is of the trout-species; beautifully clad in scales of silver; firm, and finely flavoured; and of such dimensions, that it has sometimes been known to weigh between thirty, and forty pounds.
Having now past the limits of the lake, we traversed a very pleasant country in our road to Penrith, keeping the Eamot commonly within view on our right; and leaving on the left, the ruins of Dacre Castle, the ancient seat of the noble family of that name.
No part of Cumberland is more inhabited by the genteeler families of the county, than this. Within the circumference of a few miles stand many of their houses; some of which have formerly been castles: but the road carried us in view only of two or three of them.
Before we arrived at Penrith, one of these fortresses, which is known by the name of Penrith Castle, presented us with a very noble ruin; and under the most interesting circumstances. The sun, which, through the length of a summer-day, had befriended us with all his morning, noon, and evening powers; preparing now, with farewell sweet, to take his leave, gave us yet one more beautiful exhibition.
A grand broken arch presented itself first in deep shadow. Through the aperture appeared a part of the internal structure, thrown into perspective to great advantage; and illumined by the departing ray. Other fragments of the shattered towers, and battlements were just touched with the splendid tint: but the body of light rested on those parts, which were seen through the shadowed arch.
In the offskip, beyond the castle, arose a hill, in shadow likewise; on the top of which stood a lonely beacon. The windows answering each other, we could just discern the glowing horizon through them-- a circumstance, which however trivial in description, has a beautiful effect in landscape.
This beacon is a monument of those tumultuous times, which preceded the union; and the only monument of the kind now remaining in these parts; though such beacons were formerly stationed over the whole country; and could spread intelligence, in a few seconds, from one end of it to the other.
At this later day these castles and posts of alarm, adorning the country, they once defended, raise pleasing reflections on a comparison of present times with past-- those turbulent times, when no man could sleep in safety unless secured by a fortress. In war he feared the invasion of an open enemy: and in peace a mischief still more formidable, the ravages of banditti; with whom the country was always at that time infested. These wretches were composed of the outlaws from both nations; and inhabiting the fastnesses of the bogs, and mountains, used to sally out, and plunder in all directions.
Penrith is a neat town, situated not unpleasantly, under mountains; and in the neighbourhood of lakes.
In the church-yard we saw an ancient monument, which has occasioned much speculation among antiquarians. It consists of two rough pillars, with four semicircular stones, fixed in the ground between them. Dr. Todd, an antiquarian of the last age, found out four wild-boards, and other ingenious devices, on the different parts of this monument. We examined it with attention: but could not find even the most distant resemblance of any form in nature. The whole surface seemed to be nothing more than a piece of rough chissel work. -- In the church, which is a handsome, plain structure, is placed a stone, recording the ravages of the plague among the several towns of this neighbourhood, in the year 1598.
As we leave Penrith, which is within twenty miles of Carlisle, we enter that vast waste, called Inglewood Forest, through which we rode at least nine miles; in all which space there is scare a tree to be seen: and yet were it well planted, as it once probably was, many parts of it might be admired: for the ground makes bold and noble swells; the back scenery is composed of a grand sweep of mountains; and on the left, are distant views into a cultivated country.
The mountains, which adorn these scenes, are the same we saw, as we left Keswick; only the more northern part of that circular chain is now turned towards us. In this view, the ridge of Saddle Back assumes that shape, from which it derives it's appellation.
That part of Inglewood Forest, which lies nearest the town, is known by the name of Penrith Fell, consisting of rough, and hilly grounds. One of the highest hills is occupied by the beacon, of which we had a distant view, as we examined the ruins of Penrith Castle.
On this spot, in the year 1715, the Cumberland militia assembled to oppose the rebels in their march to the south. But a militia without discipline, is never formidable. The whole body fled, as the van of the rebels appeared marching round an opposite hill.
Nicolson, bishop of Carlisle, a strenuous man, who had been very instrumental in bringing them together, and now attended their march; was so chagrined, and mortified at their behaviour, that in a fit of obstinate vexation, he would not quit the field. The enemy was coming on apace. His servants rode up to the coach for orders. The bishop sat mute with indignation. All thoughts of himself were lost in the public disgrace. His coachman however, whose feelings were less delicate, thinking the management of affairs, in this interruption of government, now devolved upon him, lashed his horses, and carried his master off the field.
On the verge of the forest, at a place called Plumpton, a large Roman station( or stative camp) runs a quarter of a mile, on the right. You trace the ground broken variously, where tents, kitchens, and earthen tables probably stood, not unlike the vestiges of a modern encampment. On the left appear the lines of a sort of considerable dimensions, about one hundred and fifty yards square, which was once the citadel of this military colony. The ramparts, and ditches may easily be traced on every side.
The great road indeed, which we travelled, is intirely Roman; and is laid almost by a line over the forest. You seldom see a winding road of Roman construction. Their survey - ors, and pioneers had no idea of the line of beauty; nor stood in reverence of any inclosures; but always took the shortest cut; making the Appian way the model of all their provincial roads.
At Ragmire, about a mile farther, where the road crosses a bog, large wooden frameworks, yet uninjured by time, were lately dug up; which the Romans had laid, as a foundation for their causey, over that unstable surface.
On leaving Inglewood Forest, the road enters an enclosed country, in which is little variety, and scarce an interesting object, till we arrive at Carlisle.
The approach to that city, from the rising ground, near the little village of Hereby, is grand. The town, which terminates a vista of a mile in length, takes a very compact form; in which no part is seen, but what makes a handsome appearance. The square, and massy tower of the castle rises on the right: in the middle, the cathedral rises still higher; and contiguous to it, on the left, appear the round towers of the citadel; which was built by Henry Viii, in the form of all his castles on the Hampshire, and Kentish coasts.
The beauty however of this approach is soon lost. As we descend the hill from Hereby, the town sinks into the insignificance of it's invirons.
The entrance is still beautiful; the road winding to the gate round the towers of the citadel.
Sect. XX.

Few towns offer a fairer field to an antiquary, than Carlisle. It's origin, and history, are remote, curious and obscure. It was unquestionably a place of consequence in Roman times. Severus's wall just includes it in the British pale. The vestiges of that barrier run within half a mile of it's gates; and it probably figured first under the character of a fortress, on that celebrated rampart.
In after ages it had it's share successively in the history of Saxons, Danes, and Cots; and during the revolutions of these several nations, was the scene of every vicissitude of war. It hath been frequently besieged, pillaged, burnt, and rebuilt. Once it lay buried in it's ruins for the space of two centuries. Rufus brought it again into existence. The present town is founded on the vestiges of former towns; which in many parts have raised the ground within, nearly to the height of the walls. The foundations of a house are rarely dug without disturbing the ruins of some other house. It has been the residence; and it has been the prison of kings. An old ash-tree is still shewn, near the gate of the castle; which is said to have been planted by the unfortunate Mary of Scotland, who spent a part of her captivity in this fortress; whither she was soon brought, after her landing at Workington. Many princes also have shed their royal favours on this ancient town; and made it's fortifications their care.
Now all it's military honours are disgraced. Northern commotions are no longer dreaded. It's gates stand always open; and it's walls, the object of no farther attention, are falling fast into ruin. The firing of a morning and an evening gun from the castle, which was the last garrison-form that remained, hath been discontinued these six years, to the great regret of the country around, whose hours of labour it regulated.
But I mean not to enter into the history of Carlisle: it concerns me only as an object of beauty. Within it's walls indeed it contains little that deserves notice. The castle is heavy in all it's parts, as these fabrics commonly are. It is too perfect to afford much pleasure to the picturesque eye; excepts as a remote object, softened by distance. Hereafter, when it's shattered towers, and buttresses, give a lightness to it's parts, it may adorn some future landscape.
The cathedral deserves still less attention. It is a heavy, Saxon pile; and there is nothing about it, that is beautiful; except the east-window, which is a rich, and very elegant piece of Gothic ramification.
The fratry, as it is called, or chapter-house, in the abbey, is the only building that deserves notice. On one side, where it has formerly been connected with the cloysters, it has little beauty: but on the other, next the deanery, it's proportions and ornaments are elegant. It seems to be of that style of architecture, which prevailed rather before the two later Henries.
But thought Carlisle furnishes little amusement within it's walls; yet it adds great beauty, as a distant object, to the country around. Few towns enjoy a better situation. It stands on a rising ground, in the midst of meadows, watered by two considerable rivers; which flowing on different sides of the city, unite a little below it; and form the whole ground-plot, on which it stands, into a kind of peninsula. Beyond the meadows, the ground rises, in almost all parts, at different distances.
The meadows around it, especially along the banks of the River Eden, want only a little more woods to make them very beautiful. In high floods, which happen two or three times in the course of a winter, they exhibit a very grand scene. The town appears standing out, like a promontory in the midst of a vast lake.
The short siege which Carlisle sustained in the rebellion of the year 1745, together with some awkward circumstances that attended it, threw a general odium upon the town; and many believed, among whom was the late duke of Cumberland, that it was very ill-affected to the government. No suspicion was ever more unjust. I dare take upon me to say, there were scarce half a dozen people in the whole place, who wished well to the rebellion.
The following anecdote, known but to few; and totally unknown, till many years after the event, will throw some light on it's hasty surrender; which brought it into such disgrace.
When the rebels came before it, it was garrisoned only by two companies of invalids; and two raw, undisciplined regiments of militia. General Wade lay at Newcastle with a considerable force: and the governor of Carlisle informing him, how unprovided he was, begged a reinforcement. The single hope of this relief, enabled the gentlemen of the country, who commanded the militia, to keep their men under arms.
In the mean time the rebels were known to be as ill-prepared for an attack, as the town was for a defence. They had now lain a week before it; and found it was impracticable, for want of artillery, to make any attempt. They feared also an interruption from general Wade: and besides, were unwilling to delay any longer their march towards London. Under these difficulties, they had come to a resolution to abandon their design.
At this critical time the governor of Carlisle received a letter from general Wade, informing him, he was so circumstanced, that he could not possibly send the reinforcement that had been desired. This mortifying intelligence, tho not publickly known, was however communicated to the principal officers; and to some others; among whom was a busy attorney, whose name was H-- s.
H-- s was then addressing a young lady, the daughter of Mr. F-- r, a gentleman of the country; and to assist his cause, and give himself consequence with his intended father in law, he whispered to him, among his other political secrets, the disappointment from general Wade.
The whisper did not rest here. F-- r frequented a club in the neighbourhood; where observing( in the jollity of a chearful evening) that only friends were present, he gave his company the information, he had just received from H-- s.
There was in that company, one s-- d, a gentleman of some fortune near Carlisle, who, tho a known papist, was however at that time, thought to be of very intire affection to the government. This man, possessed of such a secret, and wishing for an opportunity to serve a cause, which he favoured in his heart, took horse that very night, after he left the club-room, and rode directly to the rebel-camp; which he found under orders to break up the next morning. He was carried immediately to the Duke of Perth, and others of the rebel leaders, to whom he communicated his intelligence; and assured them, they might expect a mutiny in the town, if they continued before it, one day longer. Counter orders were immediately issued; and the next day the Cumberland and Westmoreland militia, being under no discipline, began to mutiny, and disperse; and the town defended now only by two companies of invalids, was thought no longer tenable. The governor was tried by a court-martial; and acquitted: and nobody supposed that either the militia-officers, or their men, were impressed by an motive worse than fear.
In so variegated a country, as England, there are few parts, which do not afford many pleasing, and picturesque scenes. The most probably way of finding them, as I observed a little above, is to follow the course of the rivers. About their banks we shall generally find the richest scenery, which the country can produce. This rule we followed in the few excursions which we had time to make from Carlisle: and first we took a view of the River Cauda.
Near the town this river is broken into so many streams; and throws up, every where, so many barren beds of pebbles, that there is no great beauty in this part of it's course. But above, where higher banks confine it's impetuosity, it becomes more interesting. The vales of Sebergham and Dalston, we heard much commended. The former we did not visit: the latter we followed with great pleasure, along it's winding course, for many miles; and found ourselves often in the midst of very beautiful scenes; the river being shut up sometimes by close, and lofty banks, and sometimes flowing through meadows edged with wood.
Among other situations on the Cauda we were much pleased with that of Rose Castle, the seat of the bishop of Carlisle; which stands on a gentle rise, in a wide part of the vale; the river winding round it, in a semi-circular form, at about half a mile's distance. The ground between the castle, and the river, consists of beautiful meadows; and beyond the river, the lofty bank, which winds with it, is well-planted; and forms a sweep of hanging wood. The castle composed of square towers, tho no object on the spot, is a good ornament to the scene.
Between Rose Castle and Wigton the country abounds with the relicks of Roman incampments. At a place, called Chalk Cliff( which, by the way, is a cliff of red stone) this lefionary inscription is engraved in the native rock.
Leg Ii Avg Milites Fec. Coh Iii Coh Iiii
From the Cauda, our next excursion was along the Eden. On the banks of this river, we were informed of many interesting scenes. At Kirkoswal, and Nunnery particularly, the country was represented as very engaging; but Corby Castle, about five miles from Carlisle, was the only place above the town, which we had time to visit.
At Wetherall we ferried over the river; and landed under the castle, which stands on the edge of a lofty bank. This bank stretches at least three miles along the course of the river, partly below, but chiefly above, the castle. I give it it's ancient title; tho it is now a mere modern house, without the least vestige of it's primeval dignity. Below the castle, the bank is rocky, and falls precipitately into the water: above, it makes a more gentle descent; and leaves an edging, which, in some parts, spreads into little winding meads, and where it is narrowest, is broad enough for a handsome walk. The whole bank, both above, and below the castle, is covered with wood; large oak, and ash; and in many places the scenery is rocky also. But the rocks are not of the grey kind, stained with a variety of different tints-- the saxa circumlita musco; but incline rather to a sandy red, which is not the most coalescing hue. They give however great spirit, and beauty to the scene.
The bank of the river, opposite to the castle, is likewise high; in many parts woody; in others affording an intermixture of wood, and lawn. Here stand the ruins of Wetherall Abbey; tho little more of it is left, than a square tower, which is some ornament, tho no very picturesque one, to the scene. These ruins were once extensive, and, I have heard, beautiful; but the dean and chapter of Carlisle, to whom the place belongs, some years ago carried off the stones, with more oeconomy than taste, to build a prebendal house.
On this side of the river also, an object presents itself, known by the name of Wetherall Safeguard, which is esteemed a great curiosity. It consists of three chambers cut in the solid rock, which being in this part, almost a precipice, the access to these chambers is very difficult. It is supposed to have been an appendage of the abbey; where the monks, in times of disorder, secreted their wealth. Some antiquarians suppose it to have been inhabited by a religious devotee, and call it St. Constantine's cell. It is rather a curious place, than any great ornament to the scene.
To the natural advantages of the scenery about Corby Castle, the improvements of art have added little. The late proprietor, who had seen nothing himself; and imagined from the resort of strangers to see the beauty of his situation, that they admired his taste, resolved to make Corby one of the most sumptuous placed in Europe. With this view, he scooped his rocks into grottos-- fabricated a cascade, consisting of a lofty flight of regular stone steps-- cut a straight walk through his woods, along the banks of the river; at the end of which he reared a temple: and being resolved to add every ornament, that expence could procure, he hired an artist of the country, at four - pence a day( for labour was then cheap) to make statues. Numberless were the works of this genius. Diana, Neptune, Polyphemus, Nymphs and Satyrs in abundance, and a variety of other figures, became soon the ornaments of the woods; and met the eye of the spectator wherever he turned. A punster, who was remarkable for making only one good pun in his life, made it here. Pointing to one of these strange figures, he called it a satyr upon the place.
But the taste of the present age hath destroyed the pride of the last. The present proprietor hath done well. The rocks indeed scooped into holes, can never be restored to their native simplicity, and grandeur. Their bold projections are for ever effaced. Nor could a century restore those trees which were rooted up to form the vista. But the statues, like the ancient sculpture of the Egyptians, are now no more. The temple is going fast into ruins and the cascade( so frivolous, if it had even been good in it's kind, on the banks of a great, and rapid river) is now overgrown with thickets. The old line of the walk could not easily be effaced: but a new one, beyond the temple, is carried on, which follows naturally the course of the river. And indeed this part of the walk admits more beauty, than any other; for the varieties of ground are greater; the bank, and edging of meadow, are more irregular; and the river more sinuous.
The path having conducted us along the river, through these pleasing irregularities about two miles from the castle, climbs to higher grounds, and returns through and beautiful sheep walks, which lie on the sides, and summit of the banks.
Through the whole of this walk, both at the top, and bottom, are many pleasant views; but they are all of the more confined kind.
Many parts of this walk were wrought by the manual labour of the priest of the family, which is a popish branch of the Howards. He belongs to an order, which injoins it's members to work in the ground so many hour a day; laying them, with admirable wisdom, under the wholesome necessity of acquiring health and spirits. I am persuaded, that if a studious man were obliged to dig three or four hours a day, he would study the better, during the remaining part of it. We had been recommended to the civilities of this ecclesiastic( the family being then in France,) and found him at work in the garden. He received us politely; and discovered the manners of a gentleman, under the garb of a day-labourer, without the least apology for his dress, and occupation. There is something very pleasing in the simplicity and manliness of not being ashamed of the necessary functions of any state, which we have made our option in life. -- This ecclesiastic succeeded Father Walsh, who has lately engaged the attention of the public. -- I have dwelt the longer on this scene, as it is the most admired one in Cumberland.
From Corby Castle to Warwick, which lies about two miles nearer Carlisle, on the banks of the same river, the road is beautiful. Many admire the situation of Warwick also. It seems to be a sweet, retired scene; but we had not time to view it.
The antiquarian's eye is immediately caught here by the parish-church; the chancel of which, forming the segment of a circle, and being pierced with small lancet-windows, shews at once, that it is of Norman origin. Tho every other mark were obliterated, he will tell you, that this is evidence sufficient of it's antiquity.
Sect. Xxi.

Having seen as much of the River Eden, above Carlisle, as our time would allow, we made our next excursion towards it's mouth, where Brugh Marsh attracted our attention. In our way we had many pleasing river views.
Brugh Marsh lies at the extremity of the English border; running up as far as Solway Frith, which, in this part, divides England from Scotland. It is a vast extended plain, flat as the surface of a quiet ocean. I do not remember that land, every gave me before so vast an idea of space. The idea of this kind, which such scenes as Salisbury Plain suggests, is much less pure. The inequality of the ground there, sets bounds to the idea. It is the ocean in a storm; in which the idea of extension is greatly broken, and intercepted by the turbulence of the waves. Brugh Marsh indeed gives us the idea of solid water, rather than of land, if we except only the colour:
--- Interminable meads, And vast savannahs, where the wandering eye Unfixt, is in a verdant ocean lost.
Brugh Marsh is one of those extended plains,( only more extensive, than such plains commonly are) from which the sea, in a course of ages, hath retired. It is difficult to compute it's limits. It ranges many leagues, in every direction, from a centre( for space so diffuse assumes of course a circular appearance) without a hedge, or even a bush, to intercept it's bounds; till it softens into the azure mountains of the horizon. Nothing indeed, but mountains, can circumscribe such a scene. All inferior boundaries of woods, and rising grounds are lost. On the English side it is bounded by that circular chain, in the heart of Cumberland, in which Skiddaw is pre-eminent. Nothing intermediate appears. On the Scotch side it's course is interrupted, through the space of a few leagues, by Solway - frith; which spreads, when the tide is at ebb, into a vast stretch of sand. The plain however is still preserved: and having passed this sandy obstruction, it changes it's hue again into vivid green, and stretches far and wide into the Scotch border, till it's progress at length is stopped by the mountains of Galloway, and Niddsdale. This extension is as much as the eye can well comprehend. Had the plain been boundless, like an Arabian desert, I know not whether it would not have lost that idea of space, which so vast a circumscription gives it.
The whole area of Brugh Marsh,( which from it's denomination we should suppose to be swampy,) is every where perfectly firm; and the turf, soft, bright, and pure. Scarce a weed rears it's head. Nothing appears of statelier growth, than a mushroom, which spreads here in very luxuriant knots.
This vast plain is far from being a desert waste. Innumerable herds of cattle pasture at large in it's rich verdure, and range, as in a state of nature.
But tho the primary idea, which this scene presents, arises purely from space, and is therefore an idea rather grand than picturesque; yet is it not totally incapable of picturesque embellishment. It is true, it wants almost every ingredient of landscape; on the fore-ground, it wants objects to preserve the keeping; and in the offskip, that profusion of little parts, which in a scene of cultivation gives richness to distance. In treating therefore a subject of this kind on canvas, recourse must be had to adventitious objects. Cattle come most naturally to hand; which being stationed, in various groups, at different distances, may serve both as a fore-ground to the landscape, and as a gage to the perspective.
Brugh Marsh is farther remarkable for having been the scene of one of the greatest catastrophes of the English history-- the death of Edward the I. Here, after the third revolt of Scotland, that prince, drew together the most puissant army, which England had ever seen. The Scots from their borders, saw the whole plain whitened with tents: but they knew not how nearly their deliverance approached. The greatest events generally arrive unlooked for. They saw a delay; and afterwards a confusion in the mighty host before them; but they heard not, till three days after, that the soul, and spirit of the enterprize was gone; and that their great adversary lay breathless in his camp.
Edward had been taken ill at Carlisle; where he had met his parliament. But neither disease, nor age( for he was now near seventy) could repress his ardour. Tho he could not mount his horse, he ordered himself to be carried in a litter to the camp; where the troops received him with acclamations of joy. But it was short-lived. The motion had irritated his disorder into a violent dysentery; which immediately carried him off.
The English borderers long revered the memory of a prince, who had so often chastised an enemy, they hated: and in gratitude reared a pillar to his name; which still testifies the spot, on which he died. It stands rather on the edge of the marsh, and bears this simple inscription.
Memoriae AEternAE Edvardi, Regis Angliae Long È Clarissimi, Qui, In Belli Apparatu Contra Scotos Occupatus, Hic In Castris Obiit, 7 Julii A. D. 1307.
Among other places in the neighbourhood of Carlisle, we made an excursion into Gills Land, with an intention chiefly to see Naworth Castle, the vale and ruins of the Abbey of Lanercost; and the ruins of Scaleby Castle.
As we leave Carlisle, along the great military road to Newcastle, the view of the River Eden from Stanwix Bank, is very pleasing. The curve it describes; the beautiful meadows it winds through; and the mountains, which close the scene, make all together a very amusing combination of objects. Wood only is wanting.
On crossing the River Irthing, about seven miles from Carlisle, the country, which was before unpleasing, becomes rich, and interesting. Here we enter the barony of Gillsland, an extensive district, which consists, in this part, of a great variety of hill, and dale. The hills are sandy, bleak, and unpleasant: but the vallies, which are commonly of the contracted kind, are beautiful. They are generally woody, and each of them watered by some little busy stream. -- From these vallies, or gills,( as the country-people call them,) with which the whole barony abounds, Campden supposes it to have taken the name of Gillsland.
On a delightful knoll, gently gliding into a sinuous gill, surrounded with full-grown oak, and overlooking the vale of Lanercost, stands Naworth Castle. The house, which consists of two large square towers, united by a main body, is too regular to be beautiful, unless thrown into perspective. It was formerly one of those fortified places, in which the nobility and gentry of the borders were obliged to live, in those times of confusion, which preceded the union. And indeed the whole internal contrivance of this castle appears calculated either to keep an enemy out; or to elude his search, if he should happen to get in. The idea of a comfortable dwelling has been totally excluded. The state-rooms are few, and ordinary: but the little apartments, and hiding holes, accessible only by dark passages, and blind stair-cases, are innumerable. Many of the close recesses, which it contains, are probably at this time, unknown. Nothing indeed can mark in stronger colours the fears, and jealousies, and caution of those times, than the internal structure of one of these castles.
Naworth Castle was formerly the capital mansion of the barons of Gillsland; who, at so great a distance from court, and seated in a country, at that time, untamed by law, are said to have exercised very extraordinary powers. The Lord William Howard, who is remembered by the name of bald Willy, is still the object of invective for his acts of tyranny. His prisons are shewn; and the site of his gibbets; where, in the phrase of the country, he would head, and hang with out judge, or jury. -- But it is probable, that his memory is injured. He acted under a standing commission of oyer, and terminer from Elizabeth; and was one of those bold spirits, which are necessary to repress the violence of lawless times. Many acts of power undoubtedly he committed: but his difficult situation compelled him. This part of the kingdom was most harassed by those troops of mischievous banditti; whom I have just had occasion to mention. They were a numerous, and not an ill-regulated, body; acting under leaders, whom a spirit of enterprize raised to power. These miscreants, in times even of profoundest peace, called for all the wariness and activity of the chiefs of the country. Sometimes they would plunder in large bodies; and sometimes in little pilfering bands. When they were taken in the fact; or, as it was called, by the bloody hand, they were put to instant death. In other cases a jury impannelled.
The active chief, who gave occasion to this digression, seems to have lived in as much terror himself, as he spread among others. He had contrived a sort of citadel in his own castle; a room, which is still shewn, with an iron door, where he constantly slept, and where his armour lies rusting to this day. From him the earls of Carlisle are descended; and have been, in succession, the proprietors of Naworth Castle.
As we left this old fortress, and descended the hill towards the ruins of the abbey of Lanercost, which lie about two miles farther, the whole vale, in which they are seated, opened before us. It is esteemed one of the sweetest scenes in this country; and indeed we found it such. It's area is about half a mile in breadth, and two or three miles in length, consisting of one ample sweep. The sides, which are gentle declivities, are covered thick with wood, in which larger depredations have been lately made, than are consistent with picturesque beauty. -- At the distant end of the vale, where the woods appear to unite, the River Irthing enters; which is considerable enough, tho divided into two channels, to be fully adequate to the scene. -- The banks of the river, and indeed the whole area of the vale, are sprinkled with clumps, and single trees; which have a good effect in breaking the lines, and regular continuity of the side-screens; and in hiding, here and there, the course of the river; and especially the bridges, which would otherwise be too bare and formal.
Near that extremity of the vale, which is opposite to Naworth Castle, lies the abbey. At a distance it forms a good object, rising among the woods. As you approach, it begins to raise a disappointment: and the spot, it is but an unpleasing ruin. The whole is a heavy, Saxon pile; compressed together without any of that airy lightness, which accompanies the Gothic. Scarce one detached fragment appears in any point of view. The tower is low, and without either form, or ornament; and one of the great ailes is modernized into an awkward parish-church. The only beautiful part of the whole is the east end. It is composed of four broken ailes; every wall of which consists of two tiers of arches, affording, a very unusual appearance; and at the same time a very amusing confusion, from the uncommon multiplication of so many arches, and pillars. -- This part of the abbey seeems to have been a separate chapel; or perhaps an oratory belonging to the noble family of Dacre, which had once possessions in these parts. Here lie the remains of several ancient chiefs of that house; whose sepulchral honours are now almost intirely obliterated. Their blazoned arms, and Gothic tombs, many of which are sumptuous, are so matted with briars, and thistles, that even the foot of curiosity is kept at a distance.
Except these remains of the abbey-church no other parts of this ancient monastery are now left; except an old gateway; and a square building, patched into a farm-house, which has no beauty.
In returning to Carlisle we passed through the valley of Cambeck, which contains some pleasing scenery; and a very considerable Roman station, on a high bank at Castle Steeds.
Rivers often present uys with very moral analogies; their characters greatly resembling those of men. The violent, the restless, the, the active, the sluggish, the gentle,, and many other epithets, be - to both. The little stream, which divides the valley of Cambeck, suggested the analogy. It's whole course is marked with acts of violence. In every part you see heaps of barren sand, and gravel, which in it's furious moods it has thrown up, sometimes on one side, and sometimes on another; destroying every where the little scenes of beauty, and plots of cultivation.
About three miles further stand the ruins of Scaleby Castle. This was another of those fortified houses, which are so frequent in this country.
It stands, as castles rarely do, on a flat; and yet, tho it's site be ill-adapted to any modes of defence, it has been a place of more than ordinary strength. Rocks, knolls, and bold, projecting promontories, on which castle usually stand, suggest various advantages of situation; and generally determine the kind of structure. On a flat, the engineer was at liberty to choose his own. Every part was alike open to assault.
He first drew two circular motes round the spot he designed to fortify: the circumference of the outward circle was about a mile. The earth, thrown out of these two motes, which were broad and deep, seems to have been heaped up at the centre, where there is a considerable rise. On this was built the castle, which was entered by two draw-bridges; and defended by a high tower, and a very lofty wall.
At present, one of the motes only remains. The other is filled up; but may still be traced. The castle is more perfect, than such buildings commonly are. The walls are very intire; and great part of the tower, which is square, is still left. It preserved it's perfect form, till the civil wars of the last century; when the castle, in too much confidence of it's strength, shut it's gates against Cromwell, then marching into Scotland; who made it a monument of his vengeance.
What share of picturesque genius Cromwell might have, I know not. Certain however it is, that no man, since Henry the eighth, has contributed more to adorn this country with picturesque ruins. The difference between these two masters lay chiefly in the style of ruins, in which they composed. Henry adorned his landscapes with the ruins of abbeys; Cromwell, with those castles. I have seen many pieces by this master, executed in a very grand style; but seldom a finer monument of his masterly hand than this. He has rent the tower, and demolished two of it's sides; the edges of the other two he has shattered into broken lines. The chasm discovers the whole plan of the internal structure-- the vestiges of the several stories-- the insertion of the arches, which supported them-- the windows for speculation; and the breastwork for assault.
The walls of this castle are uncommonly magnificent. They are not only of great height, but of great thickness; and defended by a large bastion; which appears to be of more modern workmanship. The greatest part of them is chambered within, and wrought into secret recesses. A massy portcullis gate leads to the ruins of what was once the habitable part of the castle, in which a large vaulted hall is the most remarkable apartment; and under it, are dark, and capacious dungeons.
The area within the mote, which consists of several acres, was originally intended to support the cattle, which should be driven thither in times of alarm. When the house was inhabited,( whose chearful and better days are still remembered,) this area was the garden; and all around, on the outside of the mote stood noble trees, irregularly planted, the growth of a century. Beneath the trees ran a walk round the castle; to which the situation naturally gave that pleasing curve, which in modern days hath been so much the object of art. This walk might admit of great embellishment. On one hand, it commands the ruins of the castle in every point of view; on the other, a country, which, tho flat, is not unpleasing; consisting of extensive meadows,( which a little planting would turn into beautiful lawns,) bounded by lofty mountains.
This venerable pile has now undergone a second ruin. The old oaks and elms, the ancient natives of the scene, are felled. Weeds and spiry grass have taken possession of the courts, and obliterated the every plan of a garden: while the house itself,( whose hospitable roof deserved a better fate,) is now a scene of desolation. Two wretched families, the only inhabitants of the place, occupy the two ends of the vaulted hall; the fragment of a tattered curtain, reaching half way to the top, being the simple boundary of their respective limits. All the rest is waste: no other part of the house is habitable. The chambers unwindowed, and almost unroofed, fluttering with rags of ancient tapestry, are the haunts of daws, and pigeons; which burst out in the clouds of dust, when the doors are opened: while the floors, yielding to the tread, make curiosity dangerous. A few pictures, heir-looms of the wall, which have long deserved oblivion, by I know not what fate, are the only appendage of this dissolving pile, which have triumphed over the injuries of time.
Shakespear's castle of Macbeth could not be more the haunt of swallows and martins, than this. You seen them every where about the ruins; either twittering on broken coins'; threading some fracture arch; or pursuing each other, in screaming circles, round the walls of the castle.
 In this old castle the author of this tour was born, and spent his earl youth; which must be his apology for dwelling so long upon it. -- Since this description was written, it has, in some degree, been repaired.
Sect. Xxii.

Our last expedition, in the neighbourhood of Carlisle, was to see the improvements of Mr. Graham of Netherby; and the scene of desolation, occasioned by the late overflowing of Solway Moss.
Mr. Graham's improvements are not confined to a garden, or the space of a mile or two around his house. The whole country is changed; and from a barren waste, hath assumed the face-- if not of beauty, at least of fertility.
The domain of Netherby lies on the very skirts of the English border. The Romans considered it as a part of Caledonia; and shut it from the British pale. In after ages the district around it assumed the name of the Debateable Land, and was the great rendezvous of those crews of outlawed banditti, who, under the denomination of Moss Troopers, plundered the country. We have already had occasion to mention them. In this neighbourhood were the strong holds of many of their chiefs; particularly of Johnny Armstrong of famous memory; the moted ruins of whose castle are still extant.
Among these people the arts of tillage were unknown. It was absurd to be at the trouble of sowing land themselves, when they could so easily plunder the lands of others.
Tho the union of the two kingdoms put an end to these ravages on the borders; yet the manners of the inhabitants, in some respects, suffered little change. Their native laziness, and inattention to all the arts of husbandry, remained. They occupied large tracts of excellent land at easy rates: but having no idea of producing yearly crops from the same soil by culture; they ploughed their patches of ground alternately, leaving them to recover their fertility by fallows. An indolent and scanty maintenance was all they wished; and this they obtained from a small portion of their land, with a small portion of their labour. Their lords in the mean time, never lived on the spot; and knew little of the state either of the country, or of it's inhabitants.
Mr. Graham immediately set himself to alter this state of things. He built a noble mansion for himself; which makes a grand appearance, rising on the ruins of a Roman station. Without the presence of the lord, he knew it was in vain to expect reformation. He divided his lands into moderate farms; and built commodious farm-houses. As his lands improved, he raised his rents: and his tenants in proportion found it necessary to increase their labour. Thus he has double his own income, and introduced a spirit of industry into the country. These indolent inhabitants of the borders begin now to work like other labourers; and notwithstanding they pay higher rents, live more comfortably: for idleness can never be attended with the comforts of industry.
To bring about this great change, Mr. Graham thinks it necessary to rule his subjects with a rod of iron. While he makes them labourers, he keeps them slaves. -- Perhaps indeed the rough manners of the people in those parts, could not easily be moulded by the hand of tenderness.
The feudal idea of vassalage, which has long disappeared in all the internal parts of England, remains here in great force; and throws a large share of power into the hands of the landholder. Mr. Graham's estates, which are very extensive, contain about six hundred tenants; all of whom, with their families, lie in a manner at his mercy for their subsistence. Their time and labour he commands, by their mode of tenure, whenever he pleases. Under the denomination of boon-days, he expects, at any time, their personal service; and can, in a few hours, muster the strength of five or six hundred men and horses.
Once he had occasion to call them together on military service. On a supposed injury, which, about two years ago, he had done the Scotch Borders, by intercepting the salmon in the Esk, a body of three hundred of these people marched down upon him with an intention to destroy his works. He had intelligence of their design, and issuing his precepts, mustered, in a few hours, above four hundred men before his gates, armed as the exigence would allow: and if the Scotch, on finding such superiority, had not retreated, Mr. Graham, who told us the story himself, said he believed, that all the spirit and animosity of ancient times would have revived on this occasion.
 I have heard since, that this injury has been proved to be a real one; and that reparation hath been made.
In a civil light he acts on as large a scale. His manor-courts are kept with great strictness; in which his attorney, with a jury, sits regularly to try causes; and the tenants are injoined, at the hazard of being turned out of their farms, to bring into these courts every suit under the value of five pounds. Thus he prevents much ill-blood among them, by bringing their disputes to a speedy issue; and giving the quarrel no time to rankle. He saves them also much expence: for a suit, which in the king's courts would at least cost five or six pounds; may in his, be carried through all it's forms for eight - pence. -- At Patterdale we found a nominal king. Here we found almost a king in reality.
The works on the Esk, which gave so much offence to the Scotch Borderers, deserve more notice. They consisted of a massy head thrown across the river, constructed at a great expence, hewn stone. This mole was formed at right angles with the bank; but the floods of the ensuing winter swept it away. It was attempted a second time on the same plan; but was a second time destroyed. Mr. Brindley was then sent for, whose works near Manchester had given him so high a reputation. He changed the plan; and instead of carrying the mole in a direct line across the river, formed it in a curve, arching against the stream: so that it resists the current, as a bridge does the incumbent weight. This work has stood several very great floods, and seems sufficiently firm. From the curvature of it's form the fall of the water appears also to more advantage. It now forms a semi-circular cove, which has a fine effect.
 Since this was written, I am informed, Mr. Brindley's work was destroyed from an unsuspected quarter, when the water was low. On the breaking of a frost, a great quantity of ice coming down the river, and collecting at this stoppage, some of it edged under the looser parts of the foundation, and being pressed on with a continued accession of strength, the whole blew up.
The chief end which this work had in view, was a fishery. At this place salmon-coops are placed; where all the fish, which enter the Esk, are taken. But besides this, and other purposes of utility, it adds great beauty to the neighbourood. The Esk, which was before in comparison, a shallow stream, gliding unseen beneath it's banks, is now a noble piece of water, raised to a level with them, and seen to great advantage from the house, and every part of the ground.
It was in this part of the country where that dreadful inundation, from the over-flowing of Solway Moss, destroyed lately so large a district. T see the effects of this, was the object of our next expedition.
Solway Moss is a flat area, about seven miles in circumference. The substance of it is a gross fluid, composed of mud, and the putrid fibres of heath, diluted by internal springs, which arise in every part. The surface is a dray crust, covered with moss, and rushes; offering a fair appearance over an unfound bottom-- shaking under the least pressure. Cattle by instinct know, and avoid it. Where rushes grow, the bottom is soundest. The adventrous passenger therefore, who sometimes, in dry seasons, traverses this perilous waste to save a few miles, picks his cautious way over the rushy tuffocks, as they appear before him. If his foot slip, or if he venture to desert this mark of security, it is possible he may never more be heard of.
At the battle of Solway, in the time of Henry Viii, Oliver Sinclair was imprudently set over the Scotch army, which had no confidence in him. A total rout ensued; when an unfortunate troop of horse, driven by their fears, plunged into this morass, which instantly closed upon them. The tale, which was traditional; was generally believed; but is now authenticated. A man and horse in compleat armour were lately found by the peat-diggers, in the place, where it was always supposed the affair had happened; and are preserved at the house of a Scotch baronet, if I mistake not, of the name of Maxwell; as we were informed by a gentleman of the borders, who assured us he had seen them himself. The skeleton of each was well preserved; and the different parts of the armour easily distinguished.
 Joseph Dacre, Esq; of Kirklinton, near Longtown.
Solway Moss is bounded on the south by a cultivated plain, which declines gently, through the space of a mile, to the River Esk. This plain is rather lower than the moss itself, being separated from it by a breastwork formed by digging peat, which makes an irregular, tho perpendicular, line of low, black boundary.
It was the bursting of the moss through this peat breastwork, over the plain between it and the Esk, which occasioned that dreadful ruin, the effects of which we came hither to explore. -- The more remarkable circumstances, re - lating to this calamitous event, as we had them on the best authority, were these.
On the 16th of November, 1771, in a dark tempestuous night, the inhabitants of the plain were alarmed with a dreadful crash, which they could in no way account for. Many of them were then abroad in the fields, watching their cattle; lest the Esk, which was rising violently in the storm, should carry them off. None of those miserable people could conceive the noise they heard to proceed from any cause, but the overflowing of the river in some shape, tho to them unaccountable. Such indeed, as liver nearer the source of the eruption, were sensible, that the noise came in different direction; but were equally at a loss for the cause.
In the mean time the enormous mass of fluid substance, which had burst from the moss, moved slowly on, spreading itself more and more, as it got possession of the plain. Some of the inhabitants, though the terror of the night, could plainly discover it advancing, like a moving hill. This was in fact the case; for the gush of mud carried before it, through the first two or three hundred yards of it's course, a part of the breastwork; which, tho low, was yet several feet in perpendicular height. But it soon deposited this solid mass; and became a heavy fluid. One house after another, it spread round-- filled-- and crushed into ruin; just giving time to the terrified inhabitants to escape. Scarce any thing was saved; except their lives: nothing of their furniture: few of their cattle. Some people were even surprized in their beds, and had the additional distress of flying naked from the ruin.
The morning-light explained the cause of this amazing scene of terror; and shewed the calamity in it's full extent: and yet, among all the conjectures of that dreadful night, the mischief which really happened, had never been supposed. Who could have imagined, that a breastwork, which had stood for ages, should at length give way? or that those subterraneous floods, which had been bedded in darkness, since the memory of man, should ever burst from their black abode?
This dreadful inundation, tho the first shock of it was the most tremendous, continued still spreading for many weeks, till it covered the whole plain-- an area of five hundred acres; and, like molten metal poured into a mould, filled all the hollows of it, lying in some parts thirty of forty feet deep, reducing the whole to one level surface. The overplus found it's way into the Esk; where it's quantity was such, as to annoy the fish; no salmon, during that season, venturing into the river. We were assured also, that many lumps of earth, which had floated out at sea, were taken up, some months after, at the isle of Man.
As we descended from the higher grounds to take a nearer view of this scene of horror, it exhibited a very grand appearance. The whole plain was covered by a thick smoke, occasioned by a smothering fire set to it in various parts, with a view to consume it; and brought before us that simple, and sublime idea of the smoke of a country going up like the smoke of a furnace.
When we came to plain on that side, which is next the Esk, it had so forbidding an aspect, as far as we could discover through the smoke, that we almost despaired of crossing to the chasm, as we had intended. On horse-back it was impossible; and when we had alighted, we stood hesitating on the brink, whether it were prudent, even on foot, to attempt so dangerous a march.
While we remained in this situation, we observed several groups of peasants working in the ruins: and beckoning to the nearest, one of the group came forward. He was an elderly man, strengthening his steps with a long measuring wand. His feature, and gait, tho hard and clownish, were marked with an air of vulgar consequence. As he approached, one of our company, who knew him, accosted him by the name of Wilson; and we found he was the person who conducted the works which were set on foot to clear the soil of this melancholy incumbrance.
On informing him of our difficulties, and asking, where we might venture across the plain; he bad us, like Caesar, with an air of assurance, follow him, and fear nothing. From one tussock to another, we followed, sometimes stepping-- sometimes leaping-- and sometimes hesitating, whether to go on, or to return. In very difficult places, our guide condescended to lay us a plank. In the midst of our perplexity, one of our company, straying a step from the right path, fell in; but the mud being shallow in that part, he sank only to the knees. Mr. Wilson helped him out; but reprimanded his carelessness. The reproof and the example having a good effect upon us all, we followed our guide, like pack-horses in a string, and at length compleated our undertaking.
When we got to the gulph, from whence all this mischief had issued, the spectacle was hideous. The surface of the moss itself had suffered little change. Near the chasm it appeared indented, through a space of several yards: but not in any degree, as one would have expected from so cast a discharge. The mouth of the chasm was heaped round by monstrous piles of ruin, formed by the broken breastwork, and the shell of the moss, on the first great burst; and a black, mossy tincture continued still to issue from it. If this continue to run, as it probably will, it may be a fortunate circumstance; and save the country from any farther mischief, by draining this bloated mass through a perpetual discharge.
As we stood on the higher ground, and got to windward of the smoke, we obtained a clear idea of the plain, and of the course of the irruption over it. Many fragments of a very large size, which had been carried away in the first full stream of the discharge, appeared thrown to a considerable distance. These were what made that moving bulwark, which some of the inhabitants had seen in the night. Fragments of a smaller size,( and yet many of these considerable) appeared scattered over the plain, as the heavy torrent was able to carry them. The interstices between the fragments, which had been filled with fluid moss, were now baked by the heat of the sun, and crusted over like the great surface of the moss itself. Here and there, along this surface, the broken rafters of a house, or the top of a blasted tree were seen; and made an odd appearance, rising as it were, out of the ground. But through the whole waste, there was not the least sign left of any culture; tho this plain had once been the pride of the country. Lands, which in the evening would have let for twenty shillings an acre, by the morning-light were not worth six - pence.
On this well cultivated plain twenty - eight families had their dwellings, and little farms; every one of which, except perhaps a few, who lived near the skirts of it, had the world totally to begin again. -- Mr. Graham, agreeably to the prudential maxims he has ever observed, affords them little assistance himself; and discourages the bounty of others. -- He seems to wish his dominions should thrive by industry alone; and would have his subjects depends on this great virtue for the supply of every want, and the reparation of every loss. If the maxim, in so full an extent, be good; it requires at least, a great hardiness of resolution to carry it into practice.
Whether the immense work of clearing this plain can ever totally be effected, is a doubt with many. It is attempted however with great spirit, through the united force of the two powerful elements of fire and water.
All the skirts, and other parts of it which are drier than the rest, are reduced by fire; which occasioned the great smoke from the plain, as we have descended into it; and which, at that distance, appeared to arise from the whole.
But this method is not found very effectual; as it reaches only a little below the surface. Much more is expected from the application of water; which is the part our guide Mr. Wilson has undertaken. -- How well qualified he is for the undertaking, and in what manner he proposes to accomplish it, may be conceived from the following story.
Mr. Graham's house stands on an eminence, with higher grounds above it. A little on one side of the front, stood a knoll, which made a disagreeable appearance before his windows. -- Being desirous therefore of removing it, he sent to Newcastle for a person accustomed to works of this kind. The undertaker came, surveyed the ground, and estimated the expence at thirteen hundred pounds.
While the affair was in agitation, Mr. Graham heard, that Wilson had said, the earth might be removed at a much easier rate. He was examined on the subject; and his answers appeared so rational, that he was set to work. He had already surveyed the higher grounds, where he first collected all the springs he found, into two large reservoirs; from which he cut a precipitate channel, points at an abrupt corner of the knoll. He cut also a channel of communication between his two reservoirs. These being both filled, he opened his sluices, and let out such a continued torrent of water,( the upper pool feeding the lower) that he very soon carried away the corner of the knoll, against which he had pointed his artillery. He then charged again, and levelled against another part with equal success. In short, by a few efforts of this kind, he carried away the whole hill; and told Mr. Graham, with an air of triumph, that, if he pleased, he would carry away his house next. The work was compleated in a few days; and Mr. Graham himself informed us, that the whole expence did not amount to twenty pounds.
This man, with so much genius about him, lives in the lowest stile of life; and works for the lowest wages. When we regretted, that he was paid so inadequately to his worth, we were assured, as his appearance indeed testified, that he had no higher idea of happiness, than to get drunk after his day's labour: and that better wages would only destroy him sooner.
I have since heard, that one hundred and fifty acres of the plain are now cleared by the ingenuity of this man; and that there is reason to believe, he will in time clear a considerable part of it. From the reservoirs formed by a little stream at the highest part of the over-flowed ground, he cut channels in various directions to the Esk: and when the water was let off, he placed numbers of men by the side of the stream, who rolled into it large masses of mossy earth, which were hardened by the sun.
Sect. Xxii.

Having seen such parts of the country on the borders of England, as were most curious; we set out on our return. But, instead of taking the Keswick Road, we proposed to vary our rout, by the mountains of Brugh. .
 See page 168, Vol. I.
At Penrith the road divides. We turned to the left, towards Appelby; and soon fell into a rich, and beautiful vale, in which the River Lowther, gliding under lofty woody banks, bore us company a considerable way.
When we crossed that river, the situation of Brougham Castle, one of the seat of the celebrated countess of Pembroke, attracted our notice. It had not escaped the notice of the Romans; who fixed here a station to command the country. It appears as great, at the time, in a picturesque light, as it did formerly in a military one. But we had not time to ride up to it; contenting ourselves with viewing it only as the ornament of a second distance.
At Clifton the road opens again into a wild scene. Here we examined the spot, where, in the year 1745, the rebels entering an inclosed country, made a stand; and lined the hedges to retard the duke of Cumberland's pursuit. Sir Joseph York, in his road from Ireland, had been there, we found, a few days before. He had accompanied the duke in his expedition against the rebels; and stopped a little at Clifton to review the scene. He left the people, we were informed, much pleased with his remembering a gallant action, which had been achieved, about that time, by a heroine of the country, who had carried a letter across the fire of the rebels, when no other messenger could be obtained.
From Clifton, we turned a little aside to see Lowther Hall, the seat of lord Londsdale. It is only a temporary house, the old mansion having been burnt in the time of the late lord. But materials are now collecting for a grand structure. It is situated in an extensive park, which contains a great variety of beautiful scenery.
From Lowther Hall, we pursued our rout to Appelby, keeping on our left that vast tract of barren country, called Wingfield Forest.
The situation of Appelby Castle, which belongs to the earl of Thanet, is magnificent. It stands on a rocky eminence, falling precipitately into the River Eden; which half incircles it. The banks of the river, and the sides of the precipice, are finely hung with wood. The castle is still in good repair; and is a noble pile. But, in a picturesque light, it loses half it's beauty, from it's being broken into two parts. A smaller break from a grand pile removes heaviness; and is a source of beauty. We have seen the principle exemplified in mountains, and other objects. But here the whole is divided into two parts, of such equal dimensions, that each aspires to pre-eminence. Each therefore becomes a separate whole: and both together distract the eye. The detached part should always observe a due inferiority.
 See page 55, Vol. Ii.
We had not time to take a view from the castle; which must command a very beautiful distance, over the woody vale of Eden, and the mountains, which arise beyond it.
Appelby Castle was the Apallaba of the Romans; and preserves it's origin clearer in it's etymology, than the generality of Roman stations.
This castle was formerly the favourite mansion of Ann, countess of Pembroke, Dorset, and Montgomery. As this very extraordinary lady is still the object of great veneration in these parts; as her history is curious, and less known than it ought to be; and as it is so intimately connected with all this country; the reader will excuse the following digression.
She was the daughter of George Clifford, earl of Cumberland; one of the heroes of the gallant age of Elizabeth. This noble person distinguished himself chiefly by his naval expeditions; on which he was suffered, in those frugal times, to expend a great portion of his patrimony. In return for his patriotism, he was appointed by his royal mistress, her champion in all tilts and tournaments; where the grace, and dignity of his behaviour, and his skill and address in arms, were equally admired. The rich armour he wore, on these occasions, is still shewn in this castle.
Lady Ann Cilfford was only ten years of age, when her father died. But her education was conducted by two excellent women-- her mother, a daughter of the earl of Bedford-- and afterwards by her aunt the countess of Warwick.
In her early youth she married lord Buckhurst, earl of Dorset; with whom during a few years she lived very happily. But he soon leaving her a widow; she married, six years after, Philip earl of Pembroke, and Montgomery.
This nobleman, through the favour of James I, as a reward for his great skill in the arts of hunting, and hawking, possessed a prodigious estate; not less, at that time, than eighteen thousand pounds a year. His manner of living was sumptuous beyond example; and his apparatus for field-sports magnificent beyond belief. His dog-kennels were superb; and his stables vied with palaces. But his falconry was his chief pride; which he had furnished, at a wonderful expence, with birds of game; and proper persons to manage, train, and exercise them.
Here ends the history of Philip early of Pembroke-- unless we add, that in private life, he was vicious, ignorant, and unlettered in a surprizing degree; and that his public character was stained with ingratitude, and tergiversation, by the noble historian of those unfortunate times.
With this worthless man his unhappy lady lived near twenty years. During the latter part of his life indeed he became so dissolute, that she was obliged to leave him.
About the time of his death she found herself possessed of a very ample fortune. For, it seems, her immediate succession to the large estates of her ancestors in the north, had been disputed by an uncle, who inherited the title: and an award had been given against her by James I, to which indeed she would never submit. The uncle, and his son however both dying, the great estates of the Cliffords, tho considerably impaired by her father's generosity, came to her without any farther molestation. She had besides two great jointures. That which she received from her first husband, was between three, and four thousand, a year; and that from the early of Pembroke was nearly equal to it.
On the event of the earl of Pembroke's death, she immediately laid out the whole plan of her future life; determining to retire into the north; and spend it on her own estate.
In ancient times the earls of Cumberland possessed five noble castles in the three counties of Yorkshire, Westmoreland, and Cumberland. -- Skipton-- Pendragon-- Appelby-- Brougham-- and Brugh. The tower of Bardon also was another fortified seat, where they sometimes resided. But all these castles had suffered in the late civil wars; and were reduced, more or less, to a state of great decay.
The countess of Pembroke however determined, on her coming into the north, to repair and furnish them all. This great work she compleated during the years 1657, and 1658; and placed over the gate of each castle the following inscription:
This Castle Was Repaired By The Lady An Clifford, Countess Dowager Of Pembroke,& c. In The Year-- After The Main Part Of It Had Lain Ruinous Ever Since 1648, When It Was Demolished, Almost To The Ground By The Parliament Then Sitting At Westminster, Because It Had Been A Garrison In The Civil Wars. Is. Lviii. 12. Laus Deo!
Oliver Cromwell was, at this time, at the head of affairs; whose hypocrisy and villany the countess of Pembroke detested: and as she had too much spirit to conceal her sentiments, it is probable, the protector was enough informed, how little she esteemed him. Her friends therefore, knowing the jealousy of his temper, advised her not to be so profuse in building; as they were well assured that as soon as she had built her castles, he would order them to be destroyed. But she answered with great spirit," Let him destroy them if he will: but he shall surely find, that as often as he destroys them, I will rebuild them, while he leaves me a shilling in my pocket."
She shewed her contempt for Cromwell, and her own high spirit, on another occasion. Her uncle had left her affairs so involved, that she found herself under a necessity of recovering some of her rights by a tedious lawsuit. The affair being represented to Cromwell by the opposite party, he offered his mediation. But she answered loftily, she would never accept it, while there was any law to be found in England. " What! said she, does he imagine, that I, who refused to submit to king James, will submit to him?"
But, notwithstanding her spirit, neither her castles, nor her estates were injured. Some ascribed this lenity to Cromwell's reverence of her virtue; which is very improbable: others, to her numerous friends, with whom the protector wished to keep fair; which, it is most likely, was the truth.
Her dislike to Cromwell was not founded on party; but on principle. She had the same dislike to Charles, when she became acquainted with the spirit of his government. On being pressed by her friends, sometimes after the restoration, to go to court;" By no means, said she; unless I may be allowed to wear blinkers."
 Blinkers are those blinds affixed to the bridles of coach-horses, which prevent their seeing what they ought not to see.
Besides her castles, she found likewise in ruins, almost all the churches, belonging to the several villages on her estates. The spire of one had been beaten down: another had been turned into a magazine: a third into a hospital. Seven of them were in this ruinous condition: each of which she either built from the ground, or repaired; furnishing them all with decent pews; that her tenants, in every part of her estates, might have churches in their neighbourhood.
Her several buildings, and repairs, at her first coming into the north, did not cost her less, than forty thousand pounds.
At each of her castles she resided a part of every year; regularly moving from one to the other; thus over-looking the whole of her vast estates; and blessing the country, wherever she went. For she was every where the common patroness of all, who were distressed. Her heart was as large, as her ability: and misery of every kind, that could get it's story fairly represented to her, was sure of relief.
Nor was she content with occasional acts of charity; but made many of her charitable intentions permanent by endowments. The greatest of these works were two hospitals, which she founded.
One little pleasing monument of this kind stands by the side of the road, between Penrith and Appelby. It is a monument indeed rather of her filial piety, than of her charity. On this spot, in her early youth, she had parted with her beloved mother; whom she never afterwards saw. She always remembered this parting-scene with the tenderest feelings: and, when she came into Westmoreland, among her other buildings, she raised a pillar to record it; with a stone-table at it's base. The pillar, which is still known in the country by the name of Countess Pillar, is decorated with her arms; a sundial, for the benefit or travellers; and the following inscription.
This Pillar Was Erected In The Year 1656, By Ann Countess Dowager Of Pembroke,& c. For A Memorial Of Her Last Parting, In This Place, With Her Good And Pious Mother, Margaret, Countess Dowager Of Cumberland, On The 2d Of April 1616: In Memory Whereof She Hath Left An Annuity Of £ 4. To Be Distributed To The Poor Of The Parish Of Brougham, Every 2d Day Of April For Ever, Upon The Stone Table Placed Hard By. Laus Deo!
Her very house-hold was a noble charity. Her servants were generally the children of her tenants; and were sure of a provision, if they behaved well. Her women-servants had always little portions given them, to begin the world with, if they married to please her.
The calamities of the times also, during Cromwell's government, particularly the distressed situation of several ejected ministers of the church, furnished her with ample opportunities of exerting her generosity. Among others, she was particularly kind to King, afterwards bishop of Chichester; and Duppa, and Morley, both afterwards bishops of Winchester. To each of these she allowed 40 £. a year; and when, in their distresses abroad, they informed her, that a sum of money would be of more service to them, than the annuities she was pleased to give them; she remitted a thousand pounds to be divided among them.
She was a lady of uncommon prudence in the management of her affairs. Beshope Rainbow sums up her character on this head, in two words, by calling her a perfect mistress of forecast, and aftercast.
For the numberless acts of bounty, that flowed from her she depended on two things-- her exactness in keeping accounts; and her great economy.
With regard to the former, in whatever castle she resided, an office was kept, in which all her receipts, and disbursements were entered with commercial punctuality. Of her private charities, she kep an account herself: but was so exact, that, at any time by comparing it with her public accounts, she had, at once, a compleat view of the situation of her affairs.
Her economy was equal to her exactness. Nothing was spent in vanity. Nothing was trifled away. All her family-expences were under the article of necessaries: and the very form of regularity, in which they constantly ran, made one year a check upon another.
The spirit, which she shewed in defending her rights, may perhaps be mentioned also among her plans of economy. It was a spirit not often exerted; but when it was raised, it always carried her vigorously to the end of the question; and, no doubt, secured her from many contentions, which might otherwise have disturbed her, in the midst of so complex a property; and in those dubious days, when legal rights were so much unhinged. I have mentioned her spirit, in one suit, with regard to an affair of consequence. We have an account of another of less importance.
It was a custom, on all her estates, fro each tennant to pay, besides his rent, an annual boon-hen, as it was called. This had ever been acknowledged a just claim; and is, I believe, to this day, paid on many of the great estates in the north; being generally considered as a steward's perquisite.
It happened, that a rich clothier from Halifax, one Murgatroyd, having take a tenement near Skipton, was called upon by the steward of the castle for his boon-hen. On his refusal to pay it, the countess ordered a suit to be commenced against him. He was obstinate; and she determined; so it was carried into length. At last she recovered her hen; but at the expence of 200 £. -- It is said, that after the affair was decided, she invited Mr. Murgatroyd to dinner; and drawing the hen to her, which was served up as the first dish," Come, said she, Mr. Murgatroyd, let us now be good friends: Since you al the hen to be dressed at my table, we'll divide it between us."
She had mind improved, and cultivated in many parts of learning. Dr. Donn, in his humourous manner, used to say, she knew how to converse of every thing; from predestination to slea-silk. But history seems to have been her chief amusement; to the study of which she was probably first led, by examining the history of her own ancestors. This indeed comprehended, in a great degree, the history of England from the times of the conquest: for there were few scenes of public life, in which her progenitors, the Veteriponts and the Cliffords, an active race of men, were not deeply engaged.
 A kind of raw silk used, at that time, in embroidery.
She seems to have entertained a design of collecting two materials for a history of these two potent northern families. At a great expence she employed learned men to make collections, for this purpose, from the records in the tower; the rolls; and other depositaries of public papers; which being all fairly transcribed, filled three large volumes. This work, which contains a great variety of original characters, exerting themselves on very important occasions, exerting themselves on very important occasions, is still among the family-records at Appelby Castle.
While she was thus careful to preserve the honour of her ancestors; she instituted a very severe historical restraint, if I am so call it, on herself. In a large folio volume, which made a part of her equipage, when she travelled from one castle to another, she ordered an entry to be made, under her own inspection, of the transactions of every day. To what particulars this journal extended, I have not learned. But if it was kept, as it probably was, by a confidential secretary, it might have included very minute particulars. What an interesting collection of valuable anecdotes might be furnished from the incidents of such a life! What a satyr would it be on the vanity, the dissipation, and frivolous employments of the generality of the great! This work, I am informed, is still extant; and in the hands of the earl of Thanet.
But the most conspicuous part of the character of this illustrious lady, was her piety, and great attachment to religion. No doubt the amiable instructors of her youth had given her disposition, which was naturally serious, a proper direction: but perhaps the best school, in which she had learned to think justly, was, that school of affliction, the house of her second husband, the earl of Pembroke; whose dissipated, abandoned life taught her, more than any thing else, the vanity of all earthly things, unless used for the purposes they were given.
Few divines were better versed in scripture, than she was. She could quote it pertinently on all occasions; and never failed to read a portion of it every day; or have it read to her, in the latter part of her life.
The new testament was her principal study. Next to it she was particularly fond of the psalms of David; and had those appointed for the day, read regularly to her.
She had been bred up in the church of England from her youth; and tho she could not, in the fanatical times of the usurpation, attend any public service; yet in the worst of those times she never failed to hear the church-service in her own private chapels, which she had been careful to fit up in all her castles. Many menaces of sequestrations she received from the ruling powers, if she persisted in that practice. But she shewed the same spirit on this occasion, which she had shewn on many others. She continued her practice; and left them to do as they pleased. No attempts however were made against her.
She had no idea of pomp, and grandeur. With regard to herself, her mode of living was rather parsimonious. Amidst all the objects of her generosity, herself was the only person forgotten. In her diet she was even abstemious; and would sometimes pleasantly boast, that she had scarce ever tasted wine, or physick; during her whole life. Of the elegance of dress she had never been fond; but in her latter life she laid it intirely aside; wearing nothing, for many years, but a close habit of plain, black serge; which occasioned many pleasant mistakes between her, and her attendants.
Her retinue was merely for use, not parade. Besides her common domesticks, she had al - ways two ladies of education, who lived with her. Many hours she spent alone: at other times, they read to her, and were her companions.
Her chief expence, as far as concerned herself, was in books. Her library was stored with all the best writers in the English language. She knew no other.
Such was the life of this excellent lady; equally suited to any station, in which God had pleased to place her. It was a life of no more indulgence, than the most abridged circumstance would have allowed. Her ability in doing good, was that only, in which she exceeded others.
She lived twenty - six years, after the death of her second husband: Providence lengthening out her life, as a blessing to the country, beyond her eightieth year. The 23d of March 1675 was the day of her dissolution-- one of the most melancholy days the northern counties ever experienced.
In her ended the noble family of the Cliffords. Her daughter Margaret, by the earl of Dorset( her sole surviving heiress) marry - ing the earl of Thanet, carried the Clifford estates into the Tufton family.
 The most material part of this little history is taken from a Ms life of Mr. Sedgwick, her secretary, written by himself. In this work Mr. Sedgwick occasionally inserts a few circumstances relating to his lady. -- It is a pity he had not given her the better share. His Ms is still extant in Appelby Castle.
Sect. Xxiv.

From Appelby Castle we soon approach the barrier-mountains: but we approach them, in the usual order of nature, by regular progress. The ground is first high, before it becomes mountainous; and tillage appears in scanty plots, before cultivation ceases.
A little to the north of Brugh, the ground on the left, makes a singular appearance. A hill, on which a fair is annually held, forms an exact, semi-circular convex. Scarce a knoll, or bush break the regularity of the line. Beyond this, but without any intervening ground, rises a range of distant mountains. These wore a light purple hue, when we saw them-- the circular hill, a deep green. Perhaps no disposition of ground was ever more totally unpicturesque: and yet even this( such is the force of contrast) if it be only bisected, and in a small degree adorned, is not wholly disagreeable.
At the commencement of the mountains stand the town, and castle of Brugh, not unpleasantly seated. The castle which consists, like that at Appelby, of two parts, seems to have been a very strong place. Since the time of it's last noble inhabitant, the countess of Pembroke, it has been falling fast into ruin; but we found it no easy matter, even yet, to scale the out-works of it's earthen mounds: so strong a fortress hath it once been. -- Some parts of it, especially a shattered round tower, are very picturesque.
We had not the opportunity of seeing this castle in so advantageous a light, as had favoured us, when we saw the castle of Penrith. We saw them both in the evening; but here we had no bright beam of sun-set to illumine the ruins. And yet the effect was grand. The castle and landscape around, were in deep shadow; under the influence of a retiring storm, which had hung a settled gloom on all the upper regions of the sky. The sun was invisible; but had fired the whole western horizon with a deep red. We viewed the castle from the east; and had therefore the ruddy part of the hemisphere as a back-ground to the grey tints, and strong shadows of the towers, and battlements, which intervened. These, with the deep solemnity of the gloom, were a sufficient balance to the glowing red of the horizon, which would otherwise have been too glaring. But the whole was in perfect harmony; and had a fine effect. -- Indeed nature's colouring is rarely without harmony. If the lights be glowing, the shades are proportionably deep: on the contrary, if the lights decay, the shadows decay with them; and as light is also the source of colour, the landscape wears always one uniform hue. Either the sober colouring prevails, or one vivid tint supports another. In composition, we have found, that nature may be improved; but in the beauty, and proportion of her tints, in the harmony of her colouring, she is an undeviating model of perfection.
 See the idea of improving natural composition, explained, p. 119,& c. Vol. I.
The square tower, which made the grand part of the castle, conveyed, as we looked into it, a very horrid idea. Most of these old structures have suffered great external dilapidations. But here the shell was intire; and all the internal parts were gone-- the roof, the stories, and even the vault over the dungeon. The whole was a mere excavation. I know not, that I was ever struck with a more horrid idea of the kind. The eye, confined within the walls of a vast tower, open to the sky above, which loured with unusual blackness, looked down with hideous contrast, deep into a dungeon below.
The whole road, over the mountains of Stainmore, from Brugh Castle to Bowes Castle, which is about thirteen miles, is the most unpleasant that can be conceived; and the more so, as it reminded us of the sublime scenes, which we had passed, in another part of this chain, between Ambleside and Keswick.

