

A Survey Of The Lakes Of Cumberland, Westmorland, And Lancashire: Together With An Account, Historical, TOPOGRAPHICAl, and Descriptive, Of The Adjacent Country. To Which Is Added, A Sketch of the Border Laws and Customs. 
By James Clarke Land Surveyor. 
The Second Edition 
London: Printed For The Author. 
 Mdcclxxxvii
 Inter Accipitrem& Beuteonem, Juxta phrasem percommunem, spectans ista Typis data, Haec comperui Errata; Quae si corrigas( candide Lector) Plena coronet Pacul Nectar.
 Avertice ad caliem, Erratis admove falcem.Errando. disco. Bar. Imp. 1774.
To His Royal Highness Henry Frederick, Duke Of Cumberland And Strathern, Earl Of Dublin, Ranger Of Windsor Great Park, Admiral Of The Blue Squadron, Knight Of The Most Noble Order Of The Garter, Grand Master,& c. & c. & c. The Right Honourable Thomas Howard, Earl Of Effingham, Lord Howard, Acting Grand Master; Sir Peter Parker Baronet, Deputy Grand Master; The Grand Wardens, Past And Present Grand Officers Of The Grand Lodge Of England, And Brethren Of The Most Ancient And Honourable Society Of Free And Accepted Masons: This Book Is Humbly Dedicated, By Their Most Obedient Brother And Servant, James Clarke.

Introduction.

I. It generally affords some degree of amusement, to those who possess an extensive acquaintance with general history, to observe the minute causes from whence important events have so often derived their origin. For if trifles often affect the minds of the greatest men, and of the greatest multitudes; the first by their situation, and the latter by their bulk, occasion those affairs in the world which we characterize by the name of Important; whilst, in the greatness of their effects, their insignificant original causes are generally forgotten. Yet every investigating faculty of the human mind is interested, when an opportunity offers of deducing, by a direct channel, large and extensive consequents, from a combination of circumstances, either overlooked because they are common, or slighted because they are trivial; but such as, when united and urged in a particular direction, thrust themselves abroad into the world, and become of consequence to mankind: even when no such direct channel of inquiry offers itself, we are apt enough to be pleased, if, by comparison and analogy, we can draw such inferences as Curiosity at least may warrant, and Reason not disavow.
Ii. When we wish for the leading parts of a distinguished character, we recur to private anecdotes of the life to which it belongs; are fond of tracing the connection between these and its more noted exploits, and fancy we see some uniform motive still exerting itself, though in different quarters, and on a diversity of objects; proportioning its powers to the nature or magnitude of its toil, and only varying as its employments vary. The same wish operates with respect to nations at large: we aim at their leading motives, and find it easy to call such or such an action the natural result of such an humour, or such a prejudice.
Iii. To say positively for what particular reason the people of different countries have adopted this or that custom, will always be beyond the reach of the keenest speculation. some, it is likely, nature hath originally given to all; others, climate and circumstances may have engrafted: but the greatest part must be referred to that complex and obscure variety of intervening causes, to which, because we cannot develope their particular relation, nor trace them through their intricate mazes, we have affixed the general epithet of Chance. These again, in a sort of permutation, have produced an infinite number of distinctions, of which local history can only take in a part at a time: however, in every country some particular things may be found, which on comparison appear similar to those of another; yet are of such a kind, that they cannot easily be attributed to nature or climate alone, but bear the marks of a commerce and interchange, that has some time subsisted, either directly, or by the mediation of others. If" I will throw a stone upon your cairn," was an expression of friendship amongst our forefathers, we, of course, refer it to their scythian ancestors; yet these tumuli, which we call Cairns and Barrows, are found to have been in old times amongst the Hebrews, Greeks, and Romans; and indeed what else are the Egyptian pyramids? But who would have thought that these same cairns or barrows, and this same custom, should have existed beyond the utmost eastern limits of Asia, in the barren island of Oonalashka? Again: The crisping, perfuming, and powdering of hair, are things which have been in former ages as well as this; yet one rather startles at hearing that they are common to unknown savages on the opposite side of the world, and beyond the southern tropic. Painting seems, by all wild nations, to have been first applied to their own bodies; and it is hard to determine, that the custom has not crept down, through all the different stages of civilization, from those times to our own. That the component parts of dead bodies should be united at a certain period, and become immortal, was a tenet amongst the Greeks, as well as amongst Jews and Christians. The belief of a chaos, of a rebellion in Heaven, of a general deluge, and of several other things, have been common to religions vastly remote from each other. There is a strong resemblance between the stories of Joseph and Bellerophon, of Jeptha and Idomeneus. The funeral howl has been raised in almost every quarter of the earth, and human supersstition has always had its fausti and nefausti dies. Many English words, with their native meaning attached to them, have migrated into Calabria and Apulia; yet we know not whether they were introduced along with English sheep, or at some other time. These things, without doubt, and many more that might be instanced, originate from causes which have not been of sufficient importance for the notice of general history; or they have crept on in a silent progression; or have been transported by casualties, the authentic story of which is either lost or obscured by time: yet some of them furnish powerful arguments for the existence of obsolete arrangements, and unrecorded intercourse. It is here that local attempts to supply the void in general history take place, and present resemblances, which may stimulate curiosity to investigate, if possible, their causes.
Iv. That languages radically the same, even in the latter ages of the world, should assume altered tones and idioms, far alienated from their original ones, does not seem wonderful, when one recollects the number of promiscuous tongues with which force and other contingencies have blended them; it seems to me rather more wonderful, that modern refinement, and the laboured improvements of grammarians, have not almost erazed every trace of affinity. A language, when once settled with classic precision, will of course leave out such a number of the current phrases, and words of particular districts, as are proportional to the difference between the dialects of those districts and of the men who compiled the standard tongue: some, besides, will be lost by forgetfulness, and others overlooked on account of their vulgarity. In process of time these excluded words and phrases grow more and more estranged, become at last a barbarism, and are forgotten. Yet it is not perhaps unworthy of a thinking mind to observe, how other tongues of the same stock still retain, in their purest state, many of those things which are exiled into the more barbarous and remote dialects of another; or in what manner expressions, though occasionally changed in termination,& c. mingle familiarly with the current of one mode of speech, when they have lost all connection with each other. There are few dialects which have not something distinct and peculiar to themselves; either in single words, particular phrases, or the general structure of their sentences; and when such a dialect as one of these has no standard of its own, that is, before civilization and learning have given it uniformity, every one that writes will write the words he is accustomed to, and in the stile which use has taught him. Again: Where there is no great seminary to produce scholars, who may dignify and fix their native idiom by their writings; an idiom, formed on some more fashionable plans, and established by some eminent performances, will be sought; it will become the language of scholars, and learning in time must not deviate from it. Yet as every county in England, though the radicals of its language be common, and its speech in general conformable to that of the rest, uses many phrases notwithstanding which are peculiar to itself; we may naturally infer, from the variety of nations who have inhabited this island, that it was always so; and that the standard tongue, which is a sort of mixture of the whole, left out many words as needless, because supplied by other dialects, and rejected many more on account of their vulgarity. Therefore, if any particular place has, by its cultivation of letters, or by its authority, established the superiority of its own dialect; that dialect, as it advances in refinement, will gradually become fastidious, and reject or forget many of its own homely phrases which it had in common with others of the same stock, and assume those of languages which circumstances have rendered still more learned or fashionable. Few will hesitate in calling this an emendation; yet such emendation will make the distinction still more obvious, as it must of course leave out many of those expressions which it once used in common with its kindred dialects, and which rusticity and solitude have in the mean time secured from any material alteration: for from whatever cause languages originate, without books as a fixed point to which they may recur, they will always in general intercourse be vague and fluctuating.
V. That irregular, but mischievous kind of war, which is called Incursive, cannot well subsist but amongst those who reside in territories contiguous to the boundaries of two hostile or rival states. Its requisite is Expedition, and its object Plunder. The disturbance of wars, like the boiling of a caldron, hath a sort of scum. Troublesome tempers, incapable of rest, and fond of rapine through native avarice or inveterate habits; these tempers, when jealousy makes nations under the masque of peace ill at ease with each other, or when civil administration is held with a lax hand, or again when the governors of the outside provinces, from private interests or pique, connive at their practices, will too often receive a tacit encouragement. But add to these, even in better times, the advantages of night, secrecy, and by-ways; the obstacles to regular judicial inquiry, from difference of laws under different governments; the patronage and protection of their immediate lords, of relations and neighbours; together with the force of example handed down from father to son for many generations; and we need not wonder, if such a disease acquired no small degree of virulence. There may, however, be still more reasons assigned; for when such a people are uncertain to which government they belong, or are continually changing their masters, they are willing enough to think they belong to neither, may make incursions on both, or fight out their own quarrels amongst themselves, without imagining that they are accountable to any one. Besides, individuals of this cast are too apt, when their fortunes are desperate, to forget that they have any native country at all, and to consider every thing as lawful game; or even, from a custom so long nourished in the lap of barbarity, may never dream that such actions are criminal, and perhaps consider them as requisites of life. Moreover, when wrenched by force from one party, or surrendered with a grudge, their practices may be abetted by that party as the hopes of a war, and the means of recovery. There might, without doubt, were we more intimately acquainted with circumstances, be many more causes adduced to confirm the likeliness of a durable and extensive effect attached to such a life; but these which are already mentioned, and for which there is undoubted authority with respect to their application in the present purpose, are sufficient to persuade any one that they were enough to produce certain effects, which would add new horror and cruelty to themselves; namely, old wrongs to avenge, and hereditary antipathies to gratify. But it ought not to be forgot, that such men, by their continual acquaintance with danger, and their knowledge of the country; by their hardiness, subtlety, and swiftness, would be excellent attendants on more regular armies; they would be well qualified for partisans, foragers and spies; and from thence might receive additional encouragement; nay, we know that the bulk of many armies has consisted of them: they will be, without doubt, extremely fierce and cruel; for with war a certain degree of barbarity will creep into mankind; but habitual war, and incessant violence must ensavage them strangely: History uniformly ascribes principles like these to a wild people, and generally finds them wild in a situation like this of which we are speaking.
Vi. When a country is exposed to continual invasions from a neighbouring enemy, its means of defence will be proportionally numerous. A regular government generally establishes a chain of forts, or of military stations, for its defence; or, as the Chinese have done, and as the Romans did in more places than one, builds a barrier still more continuous to exclude the invaders. But in the half - anarchy of the feudal system, every petty lord had his castle to defend his domain and his own hoard, independent of those that were maintained at the public charge. One mode had in view the security of a whole province; the other, whilst it weakened the first, more immediately regarded the property of individuals. One expects, in the first case, numerous encampments, fortresses, and military stations; in the latter, that when the defence of the inhabitants is left in a great measure to themselves, every house will be as strong as the owner can afford to make it, or will be built on an eminence for the sake of a good look-out; but, if neither of these can be accomplished, will be in the vicinity of some strong place, to which its inhabitants may withdraw for shelter. Again: When a detached kingdom retains its independence long after those contiguous to it; its manners and religious rites, when those of the others are abolished, or changed by the intrusion of strangers, we expect it should retain proportionally fresher marks of its former condition. From any one of these considerations we look for many vestiges of elder times, but when all are combined in a particular district, it is natural to infer that such a district will contain many relics of antiquity.
Vii. The painter's researches for views, which by a sort of irregular symmetry may affect the imagination strongly, or may please the eye by richness of tints or variety of shades, are generally gratified where the ruder boldness of mountains is contrasted with the rich foliage of trees, or with sheets or streams of water: or where clouds and vapours intersperse varieties of aerial scenery, that change as it were by magic, impressing on the objects within their effect a hue and cast of appearance that scarce seems earthly. He chuses his stations where these may not only meet at once, but in such an arrangement as may strike the mind powerfully, and leave their impression and image upon the memory. Where painting goes, there generally goes poetry; their walks are the same; their beloved scenes are similar, and have always been so from the Grecian tempe, to the green glens of Britain.
Viii. Wherever there are mountains, there are certain changes of weather, quite dissimilar to those which are experienced in leveller places; nay, there are diversities of climate in places equally mountainous, arising from the different directions of their hills, winds may be diverted from their original course, and part of them so diverted as to cross and interrupt each other; or they may be precipitated from the summits; or, again, in some cases generated by a mere agglomeration of clouds or mists. Now, it is well known what a material effect winds have upon the weather, or rather how intimately they are connected with it: and wherever the observers of the seasons find their prognostics changed from those of the low lands, where they are most commonly made,( because there they can be made with more certainty, and earlier with respect to their consequences,) there must be an amazing tract for natural philosophy to walk in, and examine the causes: yet this it may do with more ease in a hilly country, than a level one; because amongst hills the effects more immediately follow the cause, and both may be observed almost at once. In either case, it may perhaps divert a classic reader to compare the modern rustic method of foretelling weather, with that of Hesiod and Virgil.
It will easily be seen, that the preceding paragraphs have no regular plan in themselves, nor dependence upon each other: they are indeed only so many distinct themes on which I mean to comment, without observing any order, or having any other reference but what regards the plans. However, as they are very diffuse in their nature, it may not be amiss to subjoin a general application of each, and shew in what manner they concern the business which I have undertaken.
I. With respect to the first, I cannot begin this subject better than with an observation of sir Walter Raleigh's. speaking of that passage in Herodotus, wherein he ascribes the great wars between the Persians and Greeks to the vanity of Atossa the Persian Queen, who being desirous of having some Grecian bondwoman, teized her husband till he began that terrible contest; sir Walter says," This I may boldly affirm,( having," I think, in every estate some sufficient witness,) that matters of much consequence," founded, in all seeming, upon substantial reasons, have issued indeed from" such petty trifles, as no historian would either think upon, or could well search out." To this sentiment I so entirely accede, as to believe, that more than half of the great affairs of this world might, had we but the proper clue, be traced to some insignificancy or other as their origin: for if we say that trifles affect the minds of men in the most eminent stations, we may instance the proffer of assistance made by the Grand signior to Henry Iv. of France, merely because the former hated the word League. What dreadful havock was occasioned in England by a casual amour, and subsequent marriage of Edward Iv.! Affairs purely domestic made Henry Viii. shake off the Pope's supremacy; and a ludicrous present of a few tennis-balls is said not a little to have exasperated that great contest for empire between the kings of France and England. The finest library in the world owed its destruction to the Alexandrine war, which took its rise from an amorous interview between Caesar and Cleopatra; and the pitiful logic of an Arabian zealot destroyed another. But instances of such events are numberless, nor are those fewer the execution of which depend upon multitudes. Thus the over-forwardness and wantonness of a tax-gatherer caused that mighty insurrection of the Kentish Commons which disturbed the reign of Richard Ii.; and the steadiness of a poor, old, insignificant priest, first gave consistency to the Reformation in scotland. The confinement of a few gladiators gave being to troubles which challenged the strength of the Roman Legions; and these outrages in Judea, which did not terminate but in the almost entire extinction of the Jewish name, are generally referred to the dismission of some workmen from the building of the last Temple. I forbear further instances; and shall only ask, To what more important cause can we ascribe those religious quarrels with which almost the whole world has at times been disturbed? Whoever considers the vanity, or superstition, or other weaknesses incident to the most eminent men, will not wonder at such things as strange, any more than that the falling of an apple should suggest to the comprehensive soul of Newton, the idea of that great principle which regulates all nature. Though these same weaknesses in the minds of the multitude may perhaps operate with a greater force, there generally are found some more remote, or perhaps collateral incidents, necessary to give them effect; of which we might bring illustrations: but I am afraid that this digression is already too long; I only meant it as an argument of my more immediate subject, to which I therefore return.
The disturbances on the borders of England and scotland have frequently been the plea, and sometimes the cause of most serious affairs; yet these disturbances,( such was the temper of the people,) were begun, and continually fostered by the most unaccountable trifles. If they met at a fair, or a merry-making, some or other of them got engaged in a quarrel; each party had numerous favourers and abettors, and thus the contest became general: it was carried home by every individual, and they only came back to revenge it. Thus mutual insults and injuries made mutual complaints and justifications necessary; these delayed the cure, and this delay was not a little increased by the strange nature of the laws which prevailed in those districts: the mischief, in consequence, received continual increase, till it became of a size for general history. In the year 1369, a fair was held at Roxburgh during a peace between the two nations: at this fair a quarrel arose amongst the Borderers, as was generally the case, and a scotsman, servant to the Earl of March, was killed. Amongst the customs, and even laws of these strange people, a certain atonement for blood was one; and this atonement not being made on the present occasion, his master took up the quarrel, in which he was assisted by the Gordon and others. These began to ravage the opposite marches in a terrible manner, and of course called forth the Wardens of those marches, sir John silburn, and the Piercy, to repel the invasion, and to take vengeance by similar means. Thus the confines at large of both kingdoms, and the counties adjoining, became in a great measure a scene of desolation; and considerable numbers of men perished, in several rough encounters, during its continuance. Again: In the year 1377, another fair was held at Roxburgh, which was terminated by a similar quarrel, in which the town itself was burnt. To revenge this, the Piercy, now Earl of Northumberland, entered scotland with an army, which is said to have consisted of ten thousand men, and for three days ravaged the lands of the Earl of March. Hunting parties, besides, were productive of frequent outrages. I do not mean such parties as were made sometimes in open defiance by the turbulent and powerful chieftains of the north; but the poaching companies, who seldom or never desired a fair field, nor were prepared for much opposition. It is somewhat singular, that though, in times of peace, people of the one march were seldom hindred, upon asking leave, to hunt in the waste grounds of the other; yet the humor was such, as very seldom to use any such friendly application. Hence, the hunters were generally driven home again, and punished, according to the spirit of the times, by a few robberies, slaughters, and burnings within their own boundaries. Thus was a war begun, which spread, sometimes more, and sometimes less, into the neighbouring kingdoms; but, for the most part, found an ample supply amongst the irascible tempers in its neighbourhood. History takes notice of some of these: but without making many quotations, it may suffice to remember, that in the time of profound peace a real Chevy Chace would have been acted in the reign of James I. but for the intervention of some persons of authority and moderation. A few hunters appeared upon the West Marches of England: they were expostulated with; and refusing to return, both parties were gathering their strength to an effectual determination. But I know not that any thing has furnished so many incitements to mischief as the matches at foot-balls which used to be played in these parts, province against province. The custom is not yet obsolete; and within these last sixty years, though at that time the animosity, rivalry, and consequently the numbers of its attendants were much diminished, yet it was still played with great violence, and by several hundreds on a side. When men are heated with such exercise, and half angry with the rebuffs of the game, it is inconceivable what disturbance and uproar the quarrel of two persons can produce, even amongst friends and neighbours; but much greater must the damage have been amongst men inflamed by the animosity of ages. I have heard many traditional stories, which still remembered the tragedies to which these matches, as well as the hunting parties, had given birth; and in the neighbourhood of the Liddle, Esk, and Leven, they may still be heard. But Dr Burn, in his history of Cumberland and Westmoreland, gives a regular account of one, wherein, though they fought only with clubs and stakes, yet a considerable number of men were killed. These matches, like other pastimes, were held on sundays, or some other holy days, and by a strong similarity of circumstances present a striking picture of the solemn times and barbarous feasts of savages. Now it is impossible but such proceedings must draw the notice of the legislative authority of the country; but then the judges of such affairs were men of the same stamp with those who committed them: for the most part, they wanted little or no incitement to head and enforce the quarrel of their vassals and dependents. It was then that the consequences of these baubles became more or less noticed by real history; and afforded, as I said before, sometimes a cause, and often a plea to great and national wars.
The almost uniform train of circumstances which affected these countries from their border situation, and the little difference there was between one of the dark ages and another, strongly induce me to believe, that the Northern people were little altered in manners from very remote times, to those immediately preceding the reign of Queen Elizabeth; and the subject which I have been treating upon tempts me to relate one story, as an exemplification of it. Guthrie, in his History of England, says," that a" Welsh Chronicle, of an old date, mentions a battle fought at Arderydd,( probably Arthuret,)" upon the borders of scotland, between Aidan Uradog, or the Treacherous, and" Guendeleu, British Princes in the North of England, on the one side; and Reiderck" Hoel, Prince of the same country, on the other, upon no more important a quarrel than a lark's" nest and two dogs. This battle was fatal to Guendeleu, who was killed, and Aidan was" obliged to fly to the Isle of Man."
There still remains to mention another trifle, which was a nursery to the disorders, and an inexhaustible source of contention: this was the debateable ground; of which I shall relate nothing but what the order for its settlement in the days of Edward Vi. authorises. Its length could not exceed 5 miles, extending from Esk to sark at Dimmisdale syke-foot, and thence to Kirk Ling: yet this was only the boundary of the kingdoms then made; for the real boundary was never known before, with certainty, in this piece of ground, on account of the immemorial disorders which had prevailed there, and even the antiquity of its being debateable was too remote for the longest-lived tradition. It is said that this trifling piece of ground, from the most trifling circumstances, had given birth to prodigious, and, if we respect the causes, astonishing commotions between the two kingdoms; being the sink and receptacle of proscribed wretches, who acknowledged neither King, obeyed the laws of neither country, and feared no punishment: that hence they grew to such a pitch of boldness, as to live entirely on spoils, to plunder each side, and, having allured partners to share their irregularities, to do all manner of mischief. To finish therefore this evil, the foregoing boundary was drawn by the consent of both, and pyramids of hewn stone erected, that the laws of each country might more precisely and effectually reach these villains: however, their old habits were not thus eradicated, even after the kingdoms had both one King,( though one may reasonably conjecture that this disposition would then gradually have fallen away of itself,) till James I. whether or no to facilitate the journeys of his dun-cow is not recorded, made some sort of a transportation or dispersion of this set of inhabitants, and since that time the mischief has ceased.
such were some of the insignificant causes, which have either given birth to great wars, or have been alledged as the reason of them, to cover the real one; or when excited indeed by other motives, and avowed as such, have fed their malignity with continual and pernicious materials; insomuch, that, what was said by Velleius Paterculus to have been the case for 115 years in the contest between Rome and Carthage, has, by their means, been much more properly applied here, and that for a length of time prodigiously greater, viz. Between these people, there was either war, or preparation for war, or a peace that was never observed, for several centuries. However, as oft as I think of these destructive trifles, I cannot help calling to mind a sentence of Pope sixtus Quintus, which I have somewhere read. A friar, who had formerly been an intimate of this Pope, came to visit him after his exaltation, and being encouraged to use his former familiarity, told him, he wondered how he, a plain man, had acquired the triple crown, which so many subtle spirits wished for in vain! To this the Pope answered," Hadst" thou been abroad as I have been, and seen by what folly the world is governed, thou" wouldst wonder at nothing."
I cannot quit this subject, without taking notice of that superiority in archery which the English have always boasted, and which has had so material an effect in almost all the battles which they formerly fought, against different modes of discipline, and different nations. Whatever effect political regulations might have had in preserving this superiority, or whatever the consequent practice of it as an amusement may have done, I think I may safely aver, that the custom of poaching occasioned by the severity of the game-laws established by the conqueror, had no small effect in preserving it. It was this that produced so many noted archers and outlaws in the forest of Englewood as well as that of sherwood. For, not to mention Adam Bell and his partners, tradition still preserves the names of Watty of Croglin, Woodhead Andrew, Robin Oth' moors, Gruff Elleck( Alexander,) and of several others, as of persons distinguished in that line, even amongst a people who were almost to a man of the same stamp. Besides, as their squabbles and the subsequent marodings made the skill thus acquired at times absolutely necessary to the inhabitants on each side of the boundary, we may easily conclude, that a necessity of this kind, continually kept alive, must produce no small degree of dexterity. In addition to the motives which might induce the inferior countries of England to exercise themselves in archery, in the borders, was self-defence, and the provision of sustenance: two motives always powerful, and in those parts unremittingly urgent. Thus the trifles which continued its use, and the trifles which made that use needful, when combined together, and directed by particular contingencies, affected, by their number and collected force, the history of the times in a very distinguished manner. Whoever will consider the circumstances of the battles which were then fought, will find, that wherever the ground or circumstances favoured the archers for a number of regular discharges, they generally produced such a confusion, particularly amongst the enemy's horse, as gave the men at arms of their own party an opportunity of easily compleating it. I need cite no further particulars of this than the battle of Homeldon, when the forces of the Northern Marches encountered the gallant Archibald Earl of Douglas; the men at arms stood still that day, and the bowmen had the whole business upon their hands. It is recorded, that no armour could resist their arrows, though that of Earl Douglas and his associates had been three years in making.
It would seem indeed( by the bye) that the scots excelled in the use of the spear, and( excepting the Borderers) neglected the bow; since one of their own Kings is thought to have recommended its more general use, by ridiculing their imperfect management of it. [ see Poems of James I.]
A people accustomed to be called to the field on such trifling occasions, and inured to hardships by such causes, were also very ready to help forward commotions of a larger scale. Here Henry Iv. had his first dawn of empire; and the Piercies, with their border-friends, afterwards almost shook him from his throne. The battle of shrewsbury was one of the fiercest in the English history, and has moreover had shakespeare for its poet. The north also was the nursery of those armies which supported the cause of Henry Vi. and of Margaret, and served to add to the miseries of England so much during the contest between the Houses of York and Lancaster.
such are a few of the consequences that may, in my opinion, be fairly deduced from insignificant causes in those parts, viz. From the little piques of individuals where regular laws were wanting: and the consequent irregularities of life acquired great force, when their effects were united together, even in things not immediately pertaining to themselves. Their exact commencement is lost in antiquity; only I think one may venture to subjoin, that as these little things have occasionally produced considerable effects, so they themselves seem to have originated from causes still more considerable; i.e. the driving of the Northern nations southward: a tendency which, though obstructed at intervals, continued still to exist, and make a figure in history, from the time when the Cimmerians broke into Upper Asia, to times which were long after the fall of the Roman empire. The traces remained, and these are some of them; which, whatever may be thought, were much elder than the animosities excited by the first Edward, though the appointment of Lord Wardens might somewhat alter their appearance. so much for a comment and application of the first paragraph: I now proceed to the second.
Ii. From what motive it is I know not, except it is from the prejudices of habit, that persons, who have been accustomed to a wandering unsettled life, and such as cultivation would pronounce unhappy, reject the conveniences of regular life with wonderful perseverance; but gypsies and vagrants furnish daily and indisputable proofs of its being so. Their fondness for continual migration seems to have been sucked in with their mother's milk; and one would think, that they found amongst the comforts of society, certain restraints, which it not only irked them to bear, but which far overbalanced all its benefits. surely there is in the mind of man a strange longing for freedom; and when custom, sometimes stronger than nature, accords with it, their united efforts must be very powerful. The Isaurians were a small nation in the heart of the Roman empire; they dwelt amongst mountains; they saw civilization on every side, yet they rejected it with scorn; and, on occasions, found employment for the Legions through the course of several ages. The Eskimaux returns with glee from our luxuries to his native desarts, and to feed on train-oil, or stinking blubber. The Indians, who have been educated in the schools of North America, revolt to the barbarism of their fathers. The swiss, when in the service of foreign states, have many of them died of a longing to revisit the mountains where they spent their infancy; and the disorder has acquired, as it justly merited, a name of its own. And thus the vagrant, who perhaps never slept in a cradle, yearns for a windy barn and a bed of straw, instead of our boasted conveniences; which, whilst custom had made grateful to us, it hath made uneasy shackles to him. It is silly to blame those prejudices in others which can retort so easily upon our own: besides, every single man hath some humor or other, which, though grateful to him, may be the reverse to another: and this makes me oft think, that no one should wonder at prejudices, till he has first tried to give their cause a fair investigation. The reference which these remarks have to our present business, is as follows.
The people who inhabited the counties contiguous to the borders of England and scotland, had a degree of civilization on each side of them which was at least far superior to their own; and the execution of the laws of each kingdom, though sometimes interrupted, was upon the whole tolerably steady and uniform. Yet nothing of the kind ever got a footing here: the lust of roving and plunder supplanted every thing else, and was so continual and uninterrupted, as to resemble instinct. To their very meetings of merriment they came armed; and frequently gave fresh ardour, by new quarrels, to former animosities, even when they met purposely for a treaty of peace. That they might be more invisible during their outrodes, and consequently less liable to the effects of their enemies' vigilance, the colour of their cloathes resembled that of the scenes of their employment, or of their season of action, that is, of a brown heath and a cloudy evening. No knowledge conferred honour here, but that of the art of plundering; viz. of intricate byways, of perplexed passages in swamps and moors, and of the bow. Thus, examples of what might condemn their conduct were never offered to them, and immemorial custom seemed, as it were, to sanctify their wildness. Every Border Man almost, without exception, was brought up in a state which we would call unhappy, and every circumstance of his life tended to confirm his partiality for an uncertain bed, and unprovided diet. Danger was his companion from his infancy, and would of course debar him of the knowledge of many conveniences of settled life, yet at the same time suggest modes of convenience and habits of amusement, which it would require either real experience or long observation to be able to form an idea of. For what conception have we of things which use has not engrafted? Thus a Border Man could not want those adscititious conveniences which he never knew, though we cannot do without them. He had seen nothing of human affairs where there was not toil and hazard; therefore toil and hazard became, of course, to be considered as the necessary contingents of existence, were most intimately blended with it, and could not be detached from it: besides, every boy of spirit wishes to be a man, and to be a man in those times and places was to watch his own, and plunder others. Injuries may be forgot, quarrels obliterated, and prejudices rooted out, in the course of a man's life; but this fondness for roving, when it has once got hold, is, if my private observation has not been strangely misguided, the most obstinate of all prepossessions and attachments. I shall therefore call it the leading spirit of the Moss Troopers of both Marches. Without doubt, it received, as I said before, occasional aid from circumstances, and was accompanied by other passions, the antecedents, co-temporaries, or consequents of itself, which had a drift to the same end; but itself was the ruling and most constant principle. That I may not be thought to assign the foregoing character rashly, and without authority, I shall subjoin a few circumstances relative to their temper, out of very many that may be found; and try to give an idea of the men whom a continual acquaintance with danger had trained so far as to sport with it.
seven desperadoes of the Marches, without any motive that we know of, but their natural restlessness, and desperate love of plunder and violence, broke into and seized upon the castle of Berwick, killed sir Robert Boynton the governor, but dismissed his family, on condition that they should either pay 2000 Merks for their ransom, or return again. In consequence of this violence, Piercy of Northumberland, the Lord Warden, made his complaint to the Warden of the scots Marches, who disclaimed all knowledge of the business, and offered to join his forces to those of Piercy towards redressing it. Upon this Piercy summoned them with all possible expedition, in the name of the King of England, and required an immediate surrender: but so many similar tempers did the neighbourhood furnish, that notwithstanding the shortness of the time, their numbers were increased to 48, who, refusing to yield either to the King of England, or the King of scotland, declared that they would keep the fortress for the King of France only. They were therefore directly invested by Piercy with 7000 English archers, and 3000 horse under Neville, Lucy, stafford and others; against whom they defended the fortress for eight days, with the loss of only two of their comrades; but on the ninth, after a long and furious assault, an entry was made by storm, and they were all put to the sword.
Again: When sir Matthew Redman, governor of Berwick, was flying from the battle of Otterburn, he was singled out and pursued, on account of his armour, by sir James Lindsey; and his horse failing him, after a chace of three miles, was obliged to alight and stand the combat: upon this the other also alighted, in the true spirit of ancient chivalry, and having vanquished his antagonist, permitted him to depart upon plighting his word to return in twenty days. It is worthy of remark, that such a contract, even amongst the meanest, was so sacred, that the violation of it was accounted infamous in the extreme, and deprived a man of all respect, even amongst his former most intimate friends. However, in this case Redman had no occasion to return, for Lindsey being taken on the same day by a party of his garrison, was instantly released by him, in lieu of the liberty which he himself had received just before. It is well observed by one historian, who relates this circumstance, that the fierceness and subtlety of these men were strangely blended with generosity and good faith, without which war would soon destroy its own vitals.
The present which sir William Marmion received from his favourite lady at an entertainment, and the command which accompanied it, of wearing it in a place of the greatest danger, bears a strong resemblance to the romantic tales of King Arthur's time; and serves, at least, to shew, that the humors and fashions of men, particularly in these wild and Northern parts, was much the same as in ages almost fabulous. He repaired, in consequence of this mandate, to the famous siege of Norham castle, then beleaguered by the scots and defended by sir Thomas Grey, as to the place most accordant to the nature of the present; and thrust himself into every dangerous piece of service which occurred there, that he might acquire a proper right to the favour he had received.
As a further sample of the prevailing humour of those martial times, what sort of priest must we suppose Cressingham to have been, who never wore any coat that is accounted characteristic of profession but that in which he was killed, viz. an iron one? Beck, the fighting Bishop of Carlisle, was so turbulent a mortal, that the English King, in order to keep him within bounds, was obliged to take from him a part of those possessions which he had earned in battle, and in particular the livings of Penrith and symond-Burne. But, not to mention Thurstan, who fought the battle of the standard, there are sufficient reasons for believing that most of the priests in the Northern parts of England had a double profession; and they are so often mentioned as principals in these continual wars, that one cannot well help concluding that the martial one was more attended to. When the pastors are such, what must the people be!
Indeed, of the little regard that was paid to religion one may take as an instance, if the numberless accounts that are handed down to us of churches burnt and priests massacred were wanting, the robbery committed by a parcel of these banditti near Darlington, on the Cardinals who were deputed from Rome to make peace between the two nations; no regard was paid to the sanctity either of their character or office, but they were sent away in a very pitiful condition.
To be convinced of their general disposition for cruelty, we need only consult almost any page of their history. The infernal savageness of the Gallovegians is every where noted, and their actions were mostly requited with a brutality little inferior. But it is a notable instance of this disposition,( if it be true,) that the scots, in an incursion into Tindale, walled up a school, and burnt it, together with the children within it. As to the temper of the feebler sex, one may have some idea of it from the behaviour of the women of Carlisle, who repulsed the scots in an assault by arms of their own invention; namely, by pouring hot water upon them from the top of the walls: or from the lady who wiped in derision the places where the stones from the enemies' engines had struck, with her handkerchief: and indeed from many other circumstances of female hardiness recorded in their history, and still more in their traditions and old songs.
Of these old songs I am obliged, by the nature of this subject, to take some notice; as in them is contained a genuine sample of their spirit, and no small portion of their history, and as their traditions go hand in hand with them, or rather have been kept alive by them: besides, that very obscurity and solitude which has preserved these songs to this day, by presenting few novelties which might eraze them from the minds of men, renders them little known; whereas the anecdotes immediately preceding may be found in several writers on these subjects. But the same motive which prevents me from quoting any more of the anecdotes, viz. the fear of being tedious in the recital of things which may easily be seen elsewhere, prevents me also from being any way particular about these; as they may be heard from many persons in the borders, and as some of them are, I believe, printed. In that of Jock-o' - the-side we have a specimen of their method of scaling walls, of their custom of ransoming prisoners with cattle, of the refuge which one side of the boundary afforded to the rascals of the other, of the spirit of their jests, and of their subtlety. In that of Hobby Noble, who is mentioned in the former song as one of those rascals who had been banished from Bewcastle, his native place, for his crimes, we see their treachery from Hobby's catastrophe, and the desperate resolution that was so frequent amongst them, from his whole conduct. But we see, most particularly, of what matchless estimation amongst them was an accurate knowledge of the secret and almost inexplicable byways through moors and swamps. There is another song also in these parts of Dick-o' - the-Cow, whom I cannot help suspecting to be the same with that Richard Coldall whose monumental inscription remains in Penrith Church, and who was called by the country people Dicky Cow. With this name the women used to make their children quiet not very long ago, as they did for a long space of time in France with the name of Talbot. However this be, the song of Dick-o' - the-Cow exhibits a strong instance of the encouragement which the petty irregularities of individuals received from the connivance of their superiors, as well as of the uncommon boldness, dexterity, and cunning, which those individuals possessed. Again: One may form a notion of their irascibility and proneness to mischief from" the Battle of Red Swire," begun by the men of Tindale; and of their diversions and amusements, from many songs of either Border. It is needless to make mention in this place of those which Dr Piercy and others have published: only I must beg leave to take notice here of part of a passage which the Doctor in his preface to the" Battle of Otterburne" quotes from Froissart, as immediately applicable to my purpose. We are there told, after an account of the fury with which the encounters of those Borderers were managed, that when one party was well beaten, they would both draw off with a mutual congratulation of," God thank you;" as if they were very grateful to their enemies for giving them an opportunity of engaging in their favourite amusement. Indeed shakespear seems to allude to this humor, in one of Falstaff's speeches concerning Hotspur. And I hold it to be no small argument of the authenticity of the relations which the border-songs contain, as well as of the genuiness of their descriptions of manners, that they are uniformly impregnated with this spirit, and frequently tinctured with a something of the ludicrous, that serves to shew in what manner they reasoned with danger.
It may not be improper, in this place, to mention the medley of nations who were settled in Britain, and who may be proved not to have entirely coalesced, or been blended together in these parts, so late as the days of Hubert the Vallibus of Gilsland, from a deed of his, addressed to all Cumbrians, Frenchmen, Aliens, Danes, and Normans. Yet it does not seem that any of these people brought a regular code of laws along with them; or if they did, these laws were either never received, or were soon lost and swallowed up in the prevalent humor: for we find after that, the Commissioners appointed to settle the peace of the Marches by fixed and established ordinances, collecting these ordinances from the traditional accounts of ancient usages, that had been sanctified as laws by the length of time which they had endured. And as these usages were different from most others, nay, almost peculiar to the men to whom they belonged, it is natural to infer that the laws built upon them must be singular: for the Commissioners, well aware of the impracticability of imposing new laws upon such people, contented themselves with endeavouring to restrain them, by giving authority to those ordinances by which they had endeavoured, from immemorial times, though in vain, to regulate themselves. It must be allowed, that since the mischiefs could not be totally erazed by any regulations of government, that such an establishment of customs promised as fair for this purpose as any thing: as the customs were originally conformable to their own disposition, perfectly known to them, and more especially as from the foregoing circumstances. Men( to use one of Voltaire's phrases,) could not in this case be said to be made for laws, but laws for men. There rests yet, in the foregoing sentences, and in the confirmation which they receive from history, a strong and effectual proof of what I formerly advanced, viz. that very little alteration had taken place in these parts, from very remote ages to times immediately preceding Queen Elizabeth; and though, perhaps, no people altered very far during that period, yet I think this altered the least of any, either in manners or condition.
It seems natural, therefore, that towards giving a more compleat notion of the people, I should give a summary account of some of their laws: they have been printed at large from s. Nicholson's manuscripts, and therefore a full account of them is neither a part of my business, nor an entire comment adapted to my limits.
I shall, however, begin with a law mentioned by Cambden. No one but a scotsman could be admitted as an evidence against a scotsman, nor any one but an Englishman against an Englishman. This was surely a very fortunate law for thieves, and more especially for those of the debateable ground; who, from their situation, could be of either nation, or of neither, as they pleased. This law, however, could only extend to particular matters; since there is another in Nicholson's collection, expressly declaring, that no inhabitant of either kingdom, could, by means of witnesses, prove his property in any thing possessed by an inhabitant of the other; for such proof could only be made by the body of a man, that is by combat; and so numerous were the causes of litigation, that these combats ensued continually. The Marches, moreover, were the places where all such trials, whether for murder or theft, were to take place between the inhabitants of the two kingdoms; and no man accused of these, or any other crime that ought to be tried by single combat, was bound to answer for them elsewhere. For this reason, there were particular places fixed upon and set apart for that purpose; and to those places might all men, betwixt Tolness in England and Caithness in scotland, excepting the two Kings and certain Bishops, be summoned conformable to custom, and required to decide their quarrels by combat. I believe that the Borderers had the good effects of this law almost entirely to themselves, nor do I remember to have heard or read of more than two instances in which strangers availed themselves of it. Between the interior parts of the two kingdoms there was not much commerce of any kind; but the commerce of injuries in particular could not extend far, especially in times of peace, for which only laws could be made; partly, because the force employed in the petty infractions of quiet was not capable of a wide direction, and partly from the very nature of the incursions themselves. There was a law also which regarded the flight of a vassal into either kingdom, whereby, if demanded upon oath within six weeks, he might be recovered by his lord, whether he had fled with or without his goods; but if the demand was made later than that time, the recovery of him was attended with greater difficulty. Debts were to be recovered by an oath taken by the creditor in person upon the Marches, nor were any allowed to make claims of this kind by proxies except the Kings and Bishops before mentioned. The laws which respect these transactions are pretty similar to those which took place in other parts; only, if a debtor of low rank could get other six persons to join with him in swearing that he owed no such debt, he might be acquitted of it. But in matters touching life and limb, and indeed in every claim, a personal attendance to prosecute the quarrel or cause by oath was required of every one but those before excepted; and without this, unless a deputation was made by the consent of both parties, a man's plea was lost for ever. Though the foregoing law did not contain much extraordinary matter, yet its want of singularity is fully compensated by one which immediately follows: for it is there declared, that in every plea between a plaintiff and defendant that affected life and limb, that is, which was to be decided by combat, if the defendant happened to die within the fifteen days preceding the day of trial, his body should be carried to the Marches at the time, and to the place appointed between the two parties, because no man can be assoigned by death. Again, When the appellant delayed his appearance beyond the appointed day, the defendant ought to pass to the Marches, and obtain an attestation from three Barons that he had regularly made his appearance on the day prefixed; and this being signed by them, he was totally exempted from being liable to any challenge upon that score for the future. He had also a right, if any, or all of those Barons to whom he made application should refuse to give such a testimony, to oblige even them to decide the matter by combat; and the same privilege extended also to the appellant. stolen goods were, like debts, demanded upon oath, and might be recovered, unless the person in whose possession they were found chose to deny it; the matter was then referred to the usual mode of decision. With respect to the issue, or, to speak more in the language of the times, conviction of these trials by combat, it is worthy of notice, that whether a person was found guilty, by this means, of theft, or robbery, or murder, his atonement was made by a forfeiture of goods, and he was obliged to find sureties for the completion of this atonement; in consequence of which, there were particular laws respecting the convict, his sureties, and the pursuer. An asylum was, amongst the other circumstances of these laws, allowed to any malefactor who fled from one kingdom to the other: and when he passed from one district or province of the kingdom, in which he had taken refuge, he was entitled to protection upon an application to the sheriff of that district or province into which he entered: or if he could not find the sheriff, he might still obtain peace and protection, by ringing the bells of the first church at which he arrived within such precincts: but on the contrary, if he could be seized by those from whom he had escaped before he performed what was by them called" obtaining peace," in this manner, he might be carried back without opposition. Yet when a quarrel arrived at those circumstances, in which it could only be decided by combat; that is, when one person denied the claim of another, it might still be evaded within the fifteen days, which were generally allowed by ancient custom, as preparatory to such decision: for it was provided, that if the person accused should bring the animal, on account of which the litigation had risen, to the Marches on the day appointed for the combat, and there inform the opposite party that he believed that the property in question belonged to that party, he was exempted from the necessity of a combat; but was obliged to drive the animal into the Tweed or Esk; and if it was drowned before it reached the mid-stream, he was still answerable for it. We know not how they managed this business when the matter of dispute was such as could neither wade nor swim across, for we find no institution regarding the restoration on inanimate property.
It is needless to make any further reflection upon these laws, than what every one will make upon perusing them in these days of regularity and peace, viz. What such mortals must they have been, amongst whom such customs had prevailed from immemorial times, and for whom such laws were fabricated! However, from what it already said on this subject, I think any person may form some idea of the men who formerly inhabited the districts comprehended in these plans, and the parts contiguous. To be more copious would, perhaps, be superfluous, as any reader of common attention may find abundant examples of their temper and manner of life in the history of the dissensions and wars between the English and scots. I only beg leave to mention here, that the lands were held by a sort of military service peculiar to their situation; that when the beacons were fired, every man was to become a soldier; and that the hornage, sergeant's - oats, and a vast number of other dues, rents, and perquisites, of an almost singular kind, are to this hour indubitable proofs of the unhappy condition of these counties in former times. I think also, that I have said enough towards proving my original propositions concerning the leading characteristics which marked the people of the Northern parts of England, and towards demonstrating the effects of habitual infelicity, and a life never void of fear. I shall therefore conclude this subject with two or three quotations from Cambden, which serve as corollaries to the preceding proposition, and which, being writ at a time when the spirit, of moss-trooping was in full vigour, and by men who had seen its effects themselves, not only carry intrinsic credit along with them, but fully elucidate what I have been advancing.
In one place, Cambden says," That the inhabitants on both sides, as Borderers in all" other parts, are a military kind of men; nimble, wily, always in readiness for any" service, and, by reason of their often skirmishes passing, well experienced."
In another place is a passage which confirms my original supposition, that very little alteration of circumstances, and consequently of those manners which are influences by them, had taken place in the Borders for many ages. For we are there told, that" in the time of the Romans, their soldiers,( who were principally levied in Britain,) were" stationed in the frontier castles and cities of the Northern Provinces; and when there" was any fear of plunder or waste from the neighbouring nations, had field-stations in" the barbarian ground for the defence of the Province; others made outrodes into" the enemy's Marches, to discover their motions, and if good occasion offered, to encounter" with them before they came to their limits."
He also presents us with an account which Lesley Bishop of Ross gives of the Borderers:" They go forth in the night by troops out of their own borders, through desart" by-ways, and many winding cranks. All the day-time they refresh their horses," and recreate their own strength, in lurking-places appointed before-hand, until they" be come thither at last in the dark night where they would be; when they have laid" hold of a booty, back again they return home likewise by night, through blind ways" only, and fetching many a compass about: the more skilful any leader or guide" is to pass through those wild desarts, crooked turnings, and steep downfalls, in" the thickest mists, and deepest darkness, he is held in the greater reputation, as one" of an excelling wit: and so crafty and wily these are, that seldom or never they forgo" their booty, and suffer it to be taken out of their hands; unless it happen otherwhiles," that they be caught by their adversaries following continually after, and tracing" them by their footing, according as quick-scented sluth-hounds do lead them; but" say they be taken, so fair spoken are they and eloquent, so many sugared words they" have at will, sweetly to plead for them, that they are able to move the judges and" adversaries both, be they ever so austere and severe, if not to mercy, yet to admiration," and some commiseration withal."
speaking of the Ottaduni, Cambden says,' That which aeneas sylvius, afterwards' Pope Pius Ii. hath, when a private person, and ambassador to scotland, under the' name of John Gebelli, reported of the Borderers, I think good to relate, considering' that as yet they have not at all degenerated.' From this account, that I may avoid transcribing the whole, it appears, that in the year 1448, wherein he performed this embassy, that the principal subsistence of the Borderers was on hens, geese, and various sorts of gruels, and pottage, but were utterly unacquainted with white bread or wine. This circumstance proves their commerce must have been very little, or none at all, and their agriculture in a very poor condition. Indeed, who would till the ground, when it was so uncertain who should reap, or perhaps burn the crop? We do not find that they wanted hospitality, though it was probably like that of the Arabian, who would perhaps feast you in his house to-day, and rob you in the desart to-morrow. When aeneas arrived at a large village, the name of which he does not mention, the inhabitants of it, men, women, and children, came running about him, to gape and stare at him as at a strange sight, or the appearance of a" blackamore, or a man of India." Having been informed of the scarcity prevailing in those districts, he had received at a certain Abbey some loaves of white bread, and a rundlet of red wine, which to these attendants of his, for they had followed him to the house where he supped, inquiring of their priest whether he was a christian or not, were matters of greater astonishment than himself, having never till that time seen any thing of the kind:" There approached the table," says he, great-bellied women, and their husbands, who handling the bread, and smelling" the wine, craved some part thereof; and there was no remedy, but to divide and" give it all away amongst them." However, two hours within night they all( i.e. the males,) left aeneas to himself, and repaired with all possible speed, for fear of the scots, to a strong place at a good distance, leaving the women behind, and refusing to accept of aeneas's company; for it seems the scots used at low water to pass over the river, and fall to boot-haling. With respect to their ravenous method of begging mentioned above, I cannot help comparing it to that of the Haiduks, who lead a savage and miserable life amongst the mountains of Dalmatia, and are sometimes compelled by hunger to come down amongst the Morlacchi of the lower country, with manners similar to those of our Borderers: whilst their resorting to places of defence, and leaving their own habitations in times of danger, bears a strong resemblance to the practice of the back-settlers in America, who being, like these, rendered half - savages by situation, and exposed to unforeseen inroads, are necessitated to similar resources, when they are threatened with an Indian war; only there is this distinction, the English savages in America shelter their wives along with themselves, but the English savages on the borders of scotland refused any such allowance to theirs;" being," as aeneas tells us," thoroughly perswaded that the enemies will do them no hurt, as who reckon whoredom" no hurt or evil at all." To have done with this account given by aeneas, it appears, particularly from the remaining part of it, that they spent their days in anxiety, and their nights without rest: that, ingrossed with more immediate cares, they had no ideas of any kind of improvement or elegance: that their furniture, employment, accommodations, and dress, bore incontestible marks of the first and rudest stages of society; and that the condition of their women, even making allowance for the effects of habit, must have been particularly unhappy; since, independent of the danger to which they were exposed, and of the continual alarms in which they lived, on account of their situation, they were treated so grossly, and neglected so shamefully by the men, as to be refused the same shelter and defence with themselves; experiencing in this, that usage which, as it is the constant companion, is held by all writers to be a sure sign of the compleatest state of barbarism. What a change has a space of time less than two centuries produced!
Having so far sketched the outline of those characters from whom we the inhabitants of the middle of Britain are immediately derived, I think it will be no hard matter for any one to refer, according to the tenor of my second proposition, their private humours as individuals, to their publick exploits as a body, and to see in their deeds the habits and prepossessions of their minds.
Iii. With respect to customs,( the subject of the third paragraph,) I shall, after offering two or three observations, proceed to relate a few of those which obtain as yet a place in the north of England, and either bear an analogy to some that have belonged to different times and places, or as yet preserve vestiges of the former state of the country.
Customs may be considered as of two kinds, natural and adventitious. To the first class may be referred those which, arising from climate, characteristic nations at large with a great degree of uniformity; as well as those which, being common to mankind in general, belong not to my purpose: it is from the latter class, which, being introduced into and kept alive by circumstances, I have called Adventitious, that the main body of observations which occur to the traveller are furnished. It is from hence, that every now and then we find resemblances between those of different countries, that are apt to surprise at first sight, or stumble upon singularities for which we know not how to account; but I believe we may safely refer all such resemblances to similarity of circumstances, either prevailing now or at some former period, or otherwise, as I said before, to unrecorded intercourse; whilst singularities generally may, upon examination, be traced to some of those unforeseen accidents which have always wandered at large in the world, and have often been of such consequence in particular places, as to cause themselves to be remembered in some custom or other: when, therefore, customs in one country and age bear a resemblance to those of other regions and times, or are an elucidation of some singularity of character, they lie immediately in the way of history, and are things of some value.
I shall proceed to relate a few of these, and begin first with the mode of building their towns and villages. These were, from very obvious reasons which have been already alluded to, either built upon a hill, or in the neighbourhood, or even immediately under the shelter of some strong place. such situations were more particularly necessary in the north of England than elsewhere; since, when elevated, they commanded a wider prospect, and afforded a readier information of the approach of those enemies whom they were daily afraid of; or, when in the neighbourhood of a strong place, they enjoyed from thence a protection when the enemies were really come. The first sort still retain the names of the hills on which they were built; and the latter, with the addition of by, those of the persons or families who were possessors of the strong places to which they were contiguous. Watches were also kept in those times at the fords and passages of rivers, to stop the incursions of secret thieves, or to intercept them with their booty at their return: the persons employed in these watches were lodged in sheds and booths, which by degrees were converted into more substantial buildings, and forming little towns, still retain the words Wath or Ford, as a part of their names: or, again, if such towns were built on the turning of a river, their names terminate in Wick, or Wike, which is still used to signify an acute angle, or a creek.
There are many other circumstances which regard the situations of towns in these parts; but as they originate in a good measure from the nature of the soil, I shall defer meddling with them until I come to speak of that subject. I cannot, however, pass over the method of building each particular house, especially as it is somewhat singular, and begins of late to be disused. From the front-door an entry runs close behind the fire-place of the better kitchen, directly across the building, to the back-door, which opens into a yard where the byres and stables generally are. On one side of this entry is the door leading into the down-house or kitchen, where they brew, bake,& c. ; on the other side of the entry is the passage into the house itself, for so the better kitchen is called; but this passage is close to the back-door, so that before you arrive at the fire you have almost gone round it. The various parts and doors of this entrance into the house are known by the names of Hallen, Heck, and Mill Doors, or the space between the doors. Opposite to the fire-place is the door of the chamber, or, as it is called in its genuine English name, of the Bower, where the master and mistress of the family sleep. The word Parlour is encroaching fast upon its ancient names: its bed is, in the better sort of houses in these times, placed up stairs, or upon the loft, to use the general and ancient expression: the down-house is become back-kitchen; the old name of Ambry, for a pantry, is almost lost; and the sconce, long-settle and hemmil, are superceded by more modern furniture. These are a few of the changes which have been introduced of late days into the custom of building houses in Cumberland and the neighbouring parts within a few years past; and though I am willing to believe that modern fashions may have give more elegance to buildings, yet I am far from thinking that they have provided better in general for excluding either the wintry winds, or the heats of summer. This objection, however, to modern improvements, will not hold in the comparison of the old chimneys with those that are now used: the balk, the randle-tree, the black-hood, and the sloothing, have little to boast of, but their superior utility in drying winter provisions. A circumstance of diminished consequence in these times, on account of the more general resort to markets, and the augmentation of rural commerce.
I know not that it is worth while noticing the following circumstances; but I never see one of the most antiquated sort of houses that are found in the neighbourhood of those lakes, without imagining a resemblance between them and the houses of some nation,( and particularly of the Greeks,) in remote ages, if one can form an adequate idea of them at so great a distance of time. The porch before the house is still to be seen; the threshold,( or freshwood, for it is part of a wooden frame that contains the door,) hath still a degree of sanctity belonging to it, and certain charms are still remembered which had their effect only in that place. The and correspond very well with the Mill Doors and Hallen, and also by their covering the entrance into the house, afford a good explanation of the word vestibulum, the derivation of which has been so perplexing to grammarians. The Bower still preserves the meaning and use of the Penetrale,, in which the principal persons of the family slept; and the internal door of the entry formed of wicker-work is a sort of relick of that art of weaving twigs and osiers of which frequent mention occurs in various authors: the old-fashioned furniture also, with its embossed figures and letters, reminds one of the ancient mode of carrying goblets and other vessels, as mentioned in various authors, but particularly in Theocritus. I am well aware that such resemblances as these may be thought fanciful, and that it will be much more natural, if such resemblances exist, to try to find them amongst our Northern ancestors: to this sentence I entirely acede; yet where such resemblances can be detected, they serve to prove that similar customs have diffused themselves amongst a vast variety of mortals, and by means with which we are little acquainted; yet such, as whenever they occur, must afford employment to the curious.
There are several other resemblances between the household-furniture which remains still in these parts, and that of which we read in the classical authors. The method of fastening a door by means of a string and a sliding latch, or by a beam laid across on the inside, are still in vogue here, and they may be found in Homer: bright studs in chairs of the better sort are still used as they were amongst the Greeks. It has been a very old custom to blow the fire by means of a long tube, and seems to have been that to which Juvenal refers, when he says," Bucca foculum excitat:" this custom is still alive, even since the general introduction of bellows, and may be seen in some of the poorer, and more solitary districts of the North of England. Within these last 50 years, the master of a house, in some places, served his guests perhaps in a ruder stile, but much in the same manner as that in which Alcinous did; and the fork is only a modern substitute for the ancient use of the fingers.
The sunday fairs and sports which are still kept up in England, and particularly in Cumberland, remind one also of the games usual at the solemn times and religious festivals of the ancients. It would seem indeed that all nations in the first ages of society have mingled their amusements and religious rites together; and this induces a persuasion, that some politic concessions, made by our first reformers on account of the humor of the people, however desirous they might be of giving a proper sanctity to the sabbath, have been the means of continuing them amongst us; this is further confirmed by the places of resort common on these occasions, viz. particular springs that still retain the name of some saint; and the sundays in April, May, and June, are particularly allotted to such amusements. It is hardly worth while to mention here the pace-eggs of Easter Sunday, the cock-fights of shrove-tide, the races of Midsummer Day, and the various meats that ought, and frequently are eat, according to ancient traditional customs on each particular day in shrove-week: The Candlemas Cakes, the ninth night before Martinmas devoted to a feast on nuts, and many other antiquated baubles, are still attended to in the villages. The games also of boys are, in their proper arrangement, regulated by the saint-days; so that after such or such a day one game ceases for the year, and another takes place: amongst those who are elder, the foot-ball, hand-ball, trivet, nine - holes, and a variety of other games, among which I will not omit that famous one of scotsman and English, are the business of an ordinary sunday, and of every day amongst the school-boys. I cannot quit this subject without observing, that the games of scotsman and English, Mad Priest, Mad Tom of Mulcastre, and several others, as they are the images which are past of a larger scale, and the commemoration by effigy of ancient habits, present us with a striking hint of the origin of theatrical representations.
I beg leave also to refer to this head, that very natural and very general custom in all languages, of transferring the name of one object to another which resembled it; or where the things themselves were not alike, yet if the sensations which they excited were similar, their names have generally been so, and they who first imposed seem to have appealed to their feelings in doing so. The application of this to the present subject may be as follows: A sharp-pointed hill was in Cumberland called a Cop, which, according to Cambden, is a very old word; hence a conical piece of butter,( a very common thing, especially in the mountainous parts,) or of any thing else, hath the same title; and a little stool, the top and diverging feet of which resemble a truncated cone, hath the diminutive name of Coppy: hence too, perhaps, the words copse and coppice, with several others, might be derived. A bright flame is in several dialects called a Low; and a certain disorder of the fingers, from its colours, and the nature of its pain, is called a Whitlow; much in the same manner as the Greeks from fire gave name to a Fever, and the Latins to Inflammation. such resemblances are, however, sometimes urged further, as shall be noticed more at large hereafter: at present, it may suffice to observe, that when the motion of a top is imperceptible, it is said to sleep; hence the phrase" as sound as a top;" and as tops were made of horn, hence that vulgar one of" sleeping" horn-hard." It may be well enough to compare these with that derivation which the Greeks made from the same word, especially as the difference of circumstances have rendered them so very remote from one another; after deriving their name of a Horn from that which signified the head, they applied, according to Eustathius, the verb immediately deduced from thence to the mixing of the liquors which they drunk; because their drinking-vessels, as is the case in many places at this day, were mostly of such materials, and from thence gave a name to every kind of goblet; somewhat in the same manner as we give to any vessel that contains ink for immediate use, of whatever kind of substance it may be, the name of Ink Horn.
To causes equally obvious, and equally general, may be referred the custom of affixing opprobrious epithets; such as were formerly that of a sybarite, and that of a Chalcedonian; and such as in England is that of a Wise Man of Gotham: but in Cumberland, especially the British name Goek or Gowk, for a Cuckow, being still retained, a blockhead is frequently, on account of a ridiculous story of a cuckow and the people of a certain valley, and of the egregious folly with which the agents are taxed, entitled the Gowk of that valley.
The resort also of loungers and idle persons,( as may be found in Hesiod,) was the shop of a smith, especially in country places, and in the Winter season. In Rome it was a barber's shop; but in most parts of England a smithy has always been, in places remote from great towns, their place of rendezvous, and the center of their news, scandal, and criticism. such power has similarity of circumstances on the ways of men, in places sufficiently distant from one another!
To this head also belong the rents and dues which are paid by tenants,& c. to their superiors, and that with propriety enough; since, even in the courts of justice, the validity of such exactions, has frequently or indeed for the most part, no other sanction but that of immemorial custom. Alluding to this subject, I beg leave to remind the reader, that, according to general observation, where money, the nominal representative of property, is scarce, or where it is not known at all, what is now called in a vulgar dialect jobbing, couping, and swapping, becomes of course trade, commerce, and merchandize: we find generally that the current specie of such times has been cattle; and it is instanced as an example, that from them was the mode of computation in the days of Homer, and that hence the Latins derived their name of Money; and indeed it seems natural enough, that a staple commodity should answer for money where money is not. It is from these principles that the petty feudal Lords exacted their rents and dues in this kind of money; or in another commodity equally staple in such times, and that was in personal labour. The relicks of this ancient mode of taxation, though at this time of day exceddingly mitigated, or in some places entirely bought off, or perhaps,( as who can tell!) forgot in troublesome times, and never revived, are still vastly numerous in these parts, perhaps more so than they are elsewhere. Independent of the serjeants-oats mentioned before, and a great variety of curious dues paid by the lands dependent on the castles of the greater lords; independent of the hornage still exacted, and the now obsolete, or at least disguised beacon-rent, paid for giving notice of the approach of enemies; independent of the tolls paid to the city of Carlisle at the passages out of the county, which are still claimed, and of a great many others which may be called localities, there are still different localities, which respect the tenure of lands, and which are partly abolished and partly changed into dues of another kind. For in the troublesome times, of which I made mention in the foregoing paragraphs, and which I shall have occasion to mention again, some tenants held their lands by furnishing a man and a horse, others by furnishing a footman whilst the lord furnished a horseman; other hamlets by furnishing a certain number of bowmen, and others by every individual who held lands appearing in arms when an invasion from the scottish Marches was expected. It is true that the proportions were regulated by contingencies, or by the Lord Warden; but they have now settled into a sort of uniformity, under which, though little noted in general, they are still somewhat retentive of their original distinction, and have now and then given birth to law suits, which the ablest lawyers, conscious of their intricacy, have thought proper to decide by making the antiquity of usage their standard, and by endeavouring to balance the apparent authority of one custom with that of such as might be alledged on a contrary side. The uncertainty of the best investigation of matters of this nature, and the chicane to which they must give birth, need not be adverted to: the different claims which the Princes of Germany could produce upon one another, and which they have occasionally produced, are examples of it, though upon an infinitely larger scale; and though such intricacies are common enough in many parts of England, yet their frequency in the Norhtern parts strengthens the belief, that the masters and owners of lands have in former times been less subject to the uniform controul of civil law than they were generally in other parts which lay further to the south: I must indeed acknowledge, that a circumstance of this sort hardly needs such an argument. With respect to those other tributes to the Lords, which were usual in every place, they belong not so far to me as that I should be particular about them; for being generally known to men of the law, and better than they are to me, I shall only mention such as are particular when I come to the places to which such particular tributes belong. That of the best bed and the best horse paid on the decease of any person, of the boon-days, and many more, are not so unusual as to claim a place here.
To a person who has been told, and that with great truth, that there is hardly a peasant at this time in these counties who cannot at least read and write, it may seem strange, that, not very long ago, the case was so far different, that in a certain village the poor-rates were collected by means of a notched stick; every notch in which represented a tenement, and the proportion which each was to pay was known by similar means: this stick is still preserved, and has not been so long laid aside but that there are persons still alive who can, to use their own phrase, read it. There is also another village in which those rates were never yet collected at all, and where the custom of providing for their poor, which subsisted long before the laws respecting that subject, is still continued; and its particulars, which are curious enough, are known and observed with the greatest exactness, both by the paupers and the other inhabitants.
Cultivation of every kind has also undergone a very great change within a few years; and this change, originating partly from the improvement of the roads, and partly from the spirit of industry, diffused by the taking-up and division of a great number of commons, has had a surprising effect on the manners of the people; an effect which a man need not have lived or made observations for any great length of time to be sensible of. Thus, though the harvest-cry, and the rural feasts and customs are still preserved, and though a boundary-stone is on some occasions still sacred, yet the number of hedges is mightily increased, and consequently the necessity of them in a great measure superseded: and I know not that there can be a more remarkable passage in the history of rural civilization, than the substitution of hedges in the place of the rude metes and boundaries so generally used in former times; and thus rendering the watchers of cattle needless, as well as giving beauty to the country itself. I doubt not but there have been almost always hedges in some places, and indeed there are many remaining that bear the marks of great antiquity, but the neatness and beauty of them is a very modern improvement at least in these parts. There are, besides, many other circumstances which serve to prove, that agriculture, in the beginning of the present age, wore a sort of face which it had preserved without any material alteration in the North of England for some centuries. Amongst the circumstances which led to this change, I should act very unfairly if I did not mention the introduction of potatoes, as of a food that has superseded the old-fashioned dishes( such almost as aeneas sylvius met with on the borders) so entirely as in a manner to render their names, and the manner in which they were cooked, obsolete, even in so short a space of time as that of fifty or sixty years.
Waving a great number of things relative to this subject, because there may be found in every place customs sufficient to fill a volume, I shall just mention one or two which are generally known, though their origin is not much attended to, nor perhaps can be ever known with certainty: That of blessing a person who sneezes would almost seem, from that passage in Homer where Penelope addresses Telemachus upon such an occasion, to be of Graecian origin; though tradition says that it arose during a plague which commonly began with sneezing, and was a mode of wishing that this might not be a forerunner of the malady. The virtue of uneven numbers plainly sprung up in the medical world; and indeed the phrases that still remain in so many countries respecting them, however rude and vulgar, refer obviously to the empiric superstition from whence they originated. Religion has given birth to far more trifles, which are still alive, than any thing else, though they are at this day matters of sport; nor will an one who considers the genius of former times be hard to perswade, that even st Agnes's Fast, the efficacy of bride-cake on dreams, the ceremony of tossing a stocking in the bed-chamber of a newly-married couple, and twenty other modes of prognostication belonging to the young, and still more belonging to the aged, were in former times of some importance, especially when he is told that there are some silly minds that repose a confidence in them yet: and indeed if we make a reference to times and prejudices, why may not the meeting of the flames of two nuts thrown into the fire, each of which is supposed to represent a person, as fairly betoken the union of those persons, as the parting of the flame that arose from the funeral pyre of Eteocles and Polynices betokened the hatred of those brothers? The method of divination amongst the ancient Germans, as we find it in Tacitus, was by no means more complex, and not a little resembled this, as well in the few circumstances belonging to each, as in their common simplicity.
Having thus made mention of Tacitus, it occurs to me to take notice, by means of his information, of a few things more which shew the effect that similarity of circumstances has on the manners of distant nations. The Germans, like the Borderers of whom I have been speaking, made atonement for blood by means of cattle: Like all the inhabitants of the more solitary places, even though robbers, such as the Arabs and Moss Troopers, they thought it infamous to deny the rites of hospitality to any man of whatever nation: The borderers, as well as the Germans, went armed to every kind of business, and even to their feasts; and in the same manner their quarrels were generally terminated by bloodshed instead of abusive language. Ale also was the beverage of the Germans, as it is now and has long been of the English; But the most remarkable resemblance now left is that of the sport which Tacitus describes as the only one with which the Germans were acquainted, and of which a correct copy, as far as we can judge, may be seen in the sword-dance that is still in vogue in some places contiguous to the Borders. Has it been preserved by imitation, or revived by chance? The funeral howl has been raised in most parts of the world by the heroes of Homer and Virgil, as well as by the women of Germany and Ireland. That animation which the Germans derived, and that omen which they drew from the force and echo of their shouts as they went into battle, were not forgot in the beginning of this century; since Lord Viscount Dundee, as he began the battle at the Pass of Gillicrankie, encouraged his men with them in the contest between King William and the House of stewart. Applicable to this subject, and to the uniformity of manners from uniformity of circumstances, is, that robbery is not considered as shameful amongst the Arabs; nor was it, as we learn from the old poets, amongst the Greeks in more remote times, nor, as history uniformly tells us, amongst the Borderers. In addition to history, tradition, amongst other things, tells," that a woman had two sons; as long as her provisions" lasted, she set them regularly on the table; but as soon as they were finished, she" brought them forth two swords, which she placed upon the table, and said, sons, I" have no meat for you, go seek your dinner." so familiar a thing was rapine!
When I said elsewhere that solitude preserved language from change, I might have added Customs also: Amongst the many living examples of this, I need instance none but that of the celebration of Christmas. In proportion as you advance into the more lonely and mountainous districts, so much the more is the ancient fashion of that festival perfect; the numbers of pies, and of the rural attendants on conviviality increased; the waits with their fiddles pass from village to village; and the winter merry-nights( as they are called,) supply the want of the wakes, which are common( at other seasons indeed,) in the more southern counties.
Thus have I endeavoured to give an idea of those customs amongst which I was educated, and of some far older than the present age of men. I am apprehensive that I shall be accused of having descended to trifles unworthy of notice: Let it be remembered, however, that great things have their connection with, if not often their birth from trifles, and that reasoning finds a fund of analogies in unimportant objects. I will however frankly confess, that I have mentioned several customs which are not peculiar to these counties, that I have omitted several that are so, and that the whole is in an indigested state. My excuse for the first is, that I wished, by comparisons of things that could not be called peculiar, to prompt others to a more ample investigation of so entertaining a subject, as that of resemblance of manners in different countries, and to attempt the investigation of its causes from history, either general or particular. With regard to the second, I only say, that the bounds of an Introduction did not correspond with it, and that those peculiarities will be found more at large in the history of the places to which they belong. My apology for the third is, that I was not writing a regular Essay, but throwing out a few hints, which alluded to a part of the design of the following Work.
Iv. I come now to my fourth paragraph, or to that which respects the dialects of these parts. In a subject which opens so wide a field as this does, it cannot well be expected; but even though I touch upon its particular parts in a very slight manner, I must occasionally meddle, according to my general plan, with things that are not merely consined to it. There needs nothing else to prove how negligent an established language is of its original terms, than an examination of numberless words in the English tongue, and examining their derivation and composition. such an examination will be most easily performed by consulting the works of Lexicographers, and then observing how obsolete the original or component parts of many common words are become. Neither will any one, conversant in history, be at a loss in accounting for the relicks of various languages intermingled with ours: The words compounded of Latin prepositions, and saxon or French verbs and substantives, are a living instance of the heterogeneous mixture. such things I therefore pass by: but when I said that it was perhaps not unworthy of a thinking mind to observe how words exiled from one language still retain their original signification in another of a kindred stock, I meant to be a little more particular. For if Dutch and English words were found by Busbequius, Ambassador from the Emperor to the Ottoman Court in Taurica Chersonesus, we may fairly infer, that languages which have kept company through so many nations must have been very intimate. But to return to my purpose: Bleke in the Dutch is pale; and blake in these dialects is that pale yellow colour which corn assumes when it first begins to ripen. Deilen, to divide, gives birth to the rustic phrase deal or dyal, for a distribution to the poor at a funeral. snell, signifying swift or sharp, is now amongst our vulgar applied to a piercing wind. sneb, a beak, or the tip of the nose, is now called neb, and sometimes applied to a point of land. shorpen, is to shrivel leather or any thing else by fire,& c. ; it has lost its Dutch termination, but still retains its ancient meaning. Again; in the Dutch and the Northern dialects the word long is pronounced lang,& c. To smother also is in Dutch smooren, and here smoor. Prune is pruyn, and pryun. Loom is flow, at present applied to a deep place in a river where the course of the water is retarded. snippen is to nip, with us called snip, and generally applied to the nipping of another person in matters of property. swipe is a word now unused in the English language, and seems to have sunk into sweep; which however does not convey an accurate idea of the meaning, nor do I know of a single word that can: an instrument for lightening the labour of churning, and bears this name, is the best explanation. Again: Pronken is with us to brank or prunk, that is, to look proud and haughty; probably from the effect of the wooden capistrum or head-stool, which bears that name upon horses. Rys, with us rice, is the name of brush-wood; and heel, with us hell, to incline a vessel as is done in pouring out its contents, seems to be lost, except in the language of seamen. Indeed numberless are the words still used in the Dutch which have ceased and become obsolete in the English tongue, remembered only amidst the vulgarity and solitude of some of its dialects.
There might also be produced a pretty large number of French relicks, but one or two may serve for a specimen. To fash, amongst these dialects is to trouble or disquiet; and the French use facher in a similar sense. The word bat, for a stroke, is as much a-kin to their verb batter, as the common words battle, battalia, battery,& c. The broad ey or eigh, and ya of the North( signifying yes,) are as near as aye to their oui. But the arbitrary interposition of consonants between open vowels merely( which one would hardly suspect,) Euphoniis Gratia is the greatest resemblance, having few circumstances in the real English similar to it, except the use of the particles a and an; improvement indeed has given it in the French rules and limits, which are not to be expected here.
It might however have been expected, that the Latin Tongue would have left more numerous traces of itself, amidst the barbarisms of the Northern dialects, than are now to be found; especially if we consider that two thirds of the forces which the Romans employed in Britain were generally lodged on the Borders. However, the same cause which then detained the Romans upon the present boundaries of the two kingdoms, afterwards effaced almost every vestige of them; for the nations whom they had long resisted, afterwards rushing in, swept away every mark of them in a civil respect, and left nothing almost but the ruins of their fortifications and of their rampire. The word whinny, however, for the neighing of a horse, strongly resembles their hinnio. To scribe, is still to write; and the flocci of the Latins is still flocks. However, there is, especially if we consider the almost unparalleled desolation which reigned in these parts for many hundred of years, no more reason for considering these as directly retained from the Romans, than there is for supposing the Greek name of flocci, viz. and its verb to be immediately descended to us; because the nap of cloth, called in Cumberland knap, and the verb knap, signifying the action of cutting off the flocks, or, still more absolutely, the noise of the sheers, are still retained, along with several of their derivatives.
Of the old British Tongue still less remains, and probably from the same causes acting for a longer time. The word Goek( Gowk) is indeed still the name of a cuckow; and a few more of that kind may yet be found. some author has observed that the names of mountains and rivers seldom change in the fluctuation of languages; this is amply verified in these parts by the many British names which they still retain: We may add to these the names of many towns and vallies, such as Penrith, Penruddock, Caerdunnock, Glencoyn, Glenrudden, and to these the curious compound name of Tor Pen-how.
so far have I thought it necessary to take notice of the connection of the general dialect of these parts with other tongues, either dead or living; further variations, which may have happened to all dialects alike, have no connection with the present subject. It would indeed be a curious employment for history to take notice of the times when, and the reasons why some terms have ceased in one mode of speech whilst they remained in another: but they were beneath its notice; besides, they probably ceased in a gradual manner; and it generally takes notice of things which have either suddenly started into notice, or have been suddenly destroyed. I speak with respect to matters of this nature, for great things will always demand attention.
There is another thing to which, though belonging to language in general, I beg leave to advert: Words frequently, in their various composition, and kindred references, begin at last to forget their original import; and that the more rapidly as any language is the more unsettled; for there is a sort of poetry belonging to the human mind which is very apt in discourse to substitute resembling things for one another; or where the cause and its effect are proportional, to use them indiscriminately: or again, in a still more distant analogy, to speak in higher metaphors; and, by dint of habit and continual acceptation, to forget that the phrases which we use are merely emblematic; nor find it an easy matter, on account of a familiarity with them, as the names of things of which they are really but the type, to resolve them into their original principles. subtile men have taken advantage of this prepossession, and have constructed curious theories upon it. That my meaning may be more clearly understood, I shall subjoin an example or two. We speak familiarly of a mellow-sound, and a mellow-apple; that is of two things,( the sound and the apple,) exceedingly different; yet because the effect which they produce on the senses is somehow or other similar, we couple them with the same epithet; and having given a name to the sensation excited by the apple, we first apply it to the apple itself, and then to the sound which excited a somewhat-similar sensation; yet still we speak metaphorically, giving the names of our own feelings to the things which excited them: likewise, when the cause corresponds with its effect, we use them indiscriminately for each other, whether the Bishop of Cloyne will give us leave or not: thus, to contain impression upon the senses from external objects, we give the name of Weight and Heaviness, for the feeling or effect is proportional to the cause or body that presses. Again: When a similar sensation is excited by disease, we give it the name of Weight, though there is no pressing body in the case; thence, carrying it further still to that feeling of mind which untoward circumstances produce, we give name of Heaviness and sadness when no disease is present, from its resembling the sensations excited by disease; speaking still in metaphors, though unconscious of it from habit, and always thinking that we express the thing itself, whilst we only express its corresponding idea on our own minds. I have inserted these general observations, because they are particularly applicable to the dialects of which I am speaking; for in them such a mode of speech is remarkably frequent, and indeed constitutes the principal part of discourse. Thus,( that I may select one or two of the numberless instances that might be produced,) a calm day is said to be lown, and a cool-designing man has the same epithet bestowed on him: slape is slippery, and therefore a person in whom one can repose no confidence is a slape hand: that which is smooth and soft is called snod, and hence a man of an easy calm deportment is a snod fellow. I forbear going further, as it would lead me beyond my limits; and I shall only observe, that such phrases, which abound in every language, are like appeals from one sense to another for the truth of the resemblance which is perceived.
Words also, by means of such metaphorical, and I think I may call it arbitrary transpositions, sometimes entirely lose their original one. The of the Greeks originally signified only a being of more than human intelligence; however, in the times of the writers of the New Testament, it was only applied to malignant spirits in the sense in which it is at present received. Thus loom is at present only used for the weaver's machine; but it was formerly, as it is at present in scotland, and sometimes in the North of England, the name of any kind of instrument; as appears by the words Edge Loom, Work Loom, and in scotland by the general name of the Apparatus, for brewing,& c. How signifies empty or hungry; but the how neet is an expression so very poetical, that it by no means can be reduced to its original signification, but by supposing it to be significant of the loneliness and solitude that characterize the waste of night. Byspelt is an epithet for a very bad person; that is, his name is wrong spelled( for so by-spelled means,) like that of the devil, who is commonly mentioned by a nick-name.
Compound metaphors are also very common here, but the resolution of them into their original and component parts is often so doubtful that there is a danger of the Etymologist being liable to such sarcasms as Dean swift might bestow upon him. Let it be remembered, that the sentence in Milton,
" At every fall smoothing the raven-down" Of darkness till it smiled,"--
is pleasing, though it cannot be resolved into plain sense, without taking asunder the three metaphors heaped on each other, which is not altogether easy. I also forbear, for brevity's sake, mentioning the more curious Proverbs of these parts; for though proverbs are generally characteristic of the persons to whom they belong, yet as several poems in the Cumberland dialect are at present extant, and still more about to appear, with a glossary affixed, the want of them here will be very well supplied. As a sample however, I shall mention" As old as Knock Cross;" which conveys an idea of antiquity in Cumberland that cannot be expressed by a word of less force than what the ancients understood by Ogygian; but Knock Cross is only an upright stone, yet standing amidst the ruins of the Picts Wall. I may also mention here, that I can easily count near thirty different names for strokes and beatings, all distinctly expressive of the methods in which they are inflicted; but which seem to shew by their numbers that such things have been very frequent, and have much engrossed the minds of those who used them. Above all things however, this dialect is richest in names for different kinds of sounds: every noise has its consonant name, so that the Greek itself is left far behind in this respect.
In considering the various subjects which naturally fall under these heads, I often view, with a degree of wonder, that mighty variation which has occasionally taken place in the application of one and the same word, or of its derivatives; a variation increasing in a sort of compound proportion of the popularity and antiquity of the word itself. This has been a thing which has puzzled etymologists more perhaps than any other; finding the same word applied in quite different senses, without being in the least able to account for the difference: for when the circumstances which first occasioned it, by presenting some similarity of ideas, have ceased, the word still remains, and gives birth to fresh ones, in a series which seems as if it arose from that poetical turn of which I have already made mention, and which is natural to mankind without their being conscious of it; beginning, forsooth, with things the affinity of which is pretty obvious, but in proportion as they grow numerous extends its plan, multiplies not only its objects, but along with them increases its want of adequate description in direct phrases; and consequently, by means of the similies and metaphors of different degrees, which become necessary to it, multiplies proportionally the modes of expression. ' Tis thus that in a sort of inifinte permutation the native bent of the human mind produces the various terms of a language; and these terms, amongst an active people, do not cease to grow more numerous, till almost every thing has got a name, and every mode of thinking with which they are acquainted a mode of expression, in some sort. After this, the growth of a language is but slow, or perhaps it is static; for, in general, as new things come forward, old ones are thrust out; and thus the language of the day may be prevented from acquiring any considerable increase. By these means, however, it seems that language in general has, from a few rude and half - articulated sounds, acquired its present copiousness, fastidiousness, and customs. such a theory as this,( if it be indeed only a theory,) is strongly backed by observation. Few wants, and few objects, have never been found to produce a copious mode of speech, and where many wants and many objects grew upon those few, what method could the human mind have of pointing them out, but by an analogy to those things which were familiar to them before? The derivatives, which we are still able to trace with a tolerable degree of certainty from a very remote stock, indicate, that such a comparing principle has had no small share in increasing words, and more particularly phrases: They give us also large room to suspect that there is a great number more of the same sort, the clue of which is lost; and that though conjecture, or perhaps something more substantial, may occasionally patch up the affinity of some, yet there are others which have lost sight of their original for ever. We have at least one satisfactory conclusion from the circumstances which were mentioned before, that, whatever it was which gave language birth,( and it was probably the imitation of sounds,) simile and metaphor have been its nurses. Derivation, indeed, and composition have lent their aid, but it was as subalterns, and they only expressed partial changes, affecting the meaning of their originals; whereas, besides these effects, the other from their natural tendency often gave expression even to new ideas. That the reader may have a more compleat notion of what I would inculcate by the foregoing observations, I shall refer him to the treatise which that learned oriental Dr Gregory sharp has writ upon the subject of the Origin of Language; he will there find,( what indeed the small number of the Hebrew roots and the very temper of the language must have made the Doctor feel forcibly,) that, even in far different languages, which were intermingled with a variety of others, a strange transposition of terms had occasionally obtained. He relates, that from the name of a town in Italy where a sort of little swords or daggers were first made, that those daggers took their name; and in imitation of them afterwards, a spanish coin, a diminutive gun, and a dapper fellow; for such an account does he give of the word Pistol. From similar causes arose the names of the Gates of Cilicia and Thermopylae: from a part of the leg the Greeks took their expression for the continuation of a mountainous ridge: the Romans and Macedonians encountered at a place called the Dogs' Heads; and indeed all languages seem more or less to abound with names originating from resemblances either direct or analogical, applied more or less in the stile of metaphors. However, before I go further, it is but fair to acknowledge that the language of Ribaldry, or, as we were wont to call it, Blackguardism, is the most fertile in this kind of poetry, and that a rude mode of speech, from a scantiness of certain terms, is more beholden to it than the more copious and polished, which are on that very account more restricted in the use of new phrases. It is thus that we talk familiar enough of the head, brow, side, foot,& c. of a hill, without ever adverting to that principle in the human mind which gives birth to such expressions, though the allusion is exceedingly obvious. Thus also, as in English the prominence on the face is called Nose, and has a similar name in several languages, a promontory of lands has often the same name, especially in the Northern parts; or, as in scotland and the Isles, is Ness; in Norway it seems to be Naze; and beyond Kamschatka, in the narrow extreme of the Great Pacific Ocean, is Noss: neither will one wonder if all these names should be found to have one original, after considering in how prodigious an extent of nations, utterly disjoined, late navigators have found dialects of the Malay tongue. The sneb of the Dutch corresponds with the word Neb in Cumberland, signifying also nose, and this had in a like manner been applied to capes and headlands: one hill also in these parts is called Tongue, and another saddle-Back. From that part of the entrance of a house which is called Hallen, a narrow turn of the Lake Ulles Water has its name: from a part of the Gullet, which is called Hause,( a term which seems undoubtedly a relick of the Latin verb Haurio,) has been taken the word Hause, applied to a narrow entrance into a valley. I need hardly mention, as similar to these, that of two hills near Winander Mere, one is called Hard Knot, and the other Wry Nose. Applications of names in this manner, derived from the human body, or other things, seem,( whether we consider the numbers of them, which we may every day meet with, or the natural disposition to the use of them which we feel in ourselves in the description of any unusual object,) exceedingly natural to the human mind; so natural indeed, that I hope it is not true which I have heard related, that the people in a certain district in Cumberland, having a tolerable quantity of hills in their neighbourhood, were obliged, from their want of invention merely, to call one of them Nameless.
so much with respect to the simple mode of transferring of terms, on account of resemblance from one thing to another: There are however others, which, like Dr sharp's word Pistol, go still further. That I may say not entangle either myself or my reader in tracing the origin of a number of different terms, amongst which, though obviously a-kin, it is impossible to know with even a tolerable degree of probability which is the eldest, I shall pick out a certain set of words, amongst which I am almost sure an affinity subsists throughout; though, like every other set, I dare not pretend to say which is the ancestorial word, or that which gave being to the rest, or whether any of those which are now left merit such a name. I am led to the choice of these which follow, by a sentence in the Appendix to Mr West's account of those Lakes, in which he mentions the word scale, and gives, for the sake of elucidating the meaning of the word, this quotation, if I recollect aright, from shakespear," to scale' t a little further." I beg leave however to observe, before I enter upon the subject of the kindred phrases of the word scale, that I think Mr West's wish of tracing the English language, at least in some degree, to its roots by means of its dialects, a very good one; but that his want of acquaintance with the general mode of accenting particular words, and indeed of the general disposition of the dialect, has misled him several times in the little which he has attempted of this kind. Guthrie also, as far as I remember, in his history of scotland, has some observations on the dialect of that country, indicating, that many original phrases of our language may be found in it, which is very true. However, to return to my subject; it may be remembered, that in Dutch, schil, schulp, or shelp, signifies a shell, which in the dialect of Cumberland is pronounced schell or skell; in that dialect also the word is used for a scale. Belonging to this word therefore are several verbs, with their derivatives: to take any thing from its husk, or shell, is to sheil or shell it, as pease,& c. The husks of oats are called skillings or shillings, and the kernels are groats,( what affinity there has been supposed to exist between these and the coins of that name, I know not.) Again; to scale, is to strip off scales, bark,& c. ; but is more frequently used in a natural sense: thus any kind of crust or scurf, occasioned by disease on the body, is said, on its being detached from it, or falling asunder, to scale off. The dish also wherewith milk is skimmed has the name of a scale-dish; whether from its scaling off the cream, or from its diminishing to a thin edge like a scale or skell, is not quite obvious, but probably from both; neither is it impossible, that, before the invention of wooden dishes, milk might be skimmed with a shell in reality: every kind of dish likewise which is thin at the margin is a scale-dish; and such are those wooden ones which were formerly, and are still, in some cases, suspended at the end of a balance for the purpose of weighing; hence the name of the scales, and a pair of scales; which words are in process of time used indiscriminately, and sometimes in the singular number, for the balance itself; and thence extended by metaphor to the deliberating faculties of the mind, and to every thing which is a counterpoise to that which opposes it; being moreover variously modified according to the nature of circumstances. The hull of a ship is called its skell, as is also a house without its furniture. The booths likewise, constructed for the watchers of cattle in summer, amidst the most uncultivated parts, were skells or scales; and their Latin name in the deeds of those times is scalingae: these buildings, however, afterwards grew into towns, which took their names accordingly, as sea-scale,( scalinga ad mare,) scale, scale-fell, skelton, scalesby, Booth Scale,& c. : of the same stock is the name of a certain fish, skelly; and of a bird, skell-Drake. I might be laughed at for suggesting that shelf, in this dialect skelf; or skelvin, the name of the additional rail that goes round a cart, are from the same origin: however, was I not afraid of being tedious, I could produce an account of things that would give such a suggestion no small degree of probability.
V. Having said what may be thought perhaps more than enough on dialects, I proceed to make some observations on the incursive wars that so particularly prevailed on the Borders: but as what has been already said has anticipated a good deal of what belongs literally to this head, and as a regular account of those bickerings belongs not to my purpose, I shall be contented with a few quotations from different authorities, which will serve at least to shew, that the observations which I have laid down in my fifth paragraph are not without foundation.
When I mentioned Expedition and Plunder as the requisite and object of these incursions, I meant not only a reference to almost every part of the history and character of the people, but an allusion to the monuments, which are still to be seen, of the velocity and transient nature of their attacks. In the first place, to the circles of very old thorns, or of other inclosures in which the people of each village or hamlet used to collect and watch their cattle by night for fear of a surprise; these are now called Lodges. The great distance of many of them from the Border proves that the speed and secrecy of the assailants must have been great indeed; especially if we consider a second circumstance, viz. the beacons, erected for more speedily conveying information of an enemy's approach: add to these sluth-hounds, with which they were obliged to trace the march of their invisible enemy when retreating; and we shall have no occasion of recurring to particular accounts for being satisfied with respect to the encouragement which night and by-ways would furnish to such adventurers.
When again we consider that these counties are not mentioned in Doomsday Book, that the boundary of the two kingdoms was at one time upon stane-moor, and another time at the foot of sark; that stephen surrendered Cumberland and Westmoreland to the scots King, and that they were recovered by his successor, we need not wonder that the inhabitants could not very well know to which kingdom they ought to belong; and therefore could hardly, by means of a reciprocity of interests, form any particular attachment to either. The consequences of this, added to the opportunity and habit of rapine, must not a little add to their broils and instability: thus in the times of Edward I. when those countries had long been considered as a part of England, we find, that several of the Cumberland gentleman, amongst whose names I remember that of seaton Lord of Gamelsby, and Glassonby, forfeited their estates for taking the part of Robert Bruce and the scots against him. Indeed there long subsisted an intimacy, by means of very close family-connections, between the principal families of Cumberland and those of the opposite side of the Firth, particularly of Annandale: before that period, the disturbances had a more irregular, though perhaps a less pernicious direction; and he, by inflaming former animosities, and by putting an end to all such connections,( at least as far as the severity of his government could do it,) made the distinction between an Englishman and scotsman observed with a more rancorous nicety than before. It is true, we are informed, that when the Romans first quitted their rampire and forsook Britain, the fury of the Barbarians was such as to destroy even every thing that might be a vestige of itself; but the retreat of many of the saxons northward, on the Norman invasion, and several circumstances prior to that event, had produced considerable, though only temporary changes; for though one remembers the horrid fury of the Gallovegians in their invasions, yet one also calls to mind certain intervals of tranquility, wherein the temper of individuals produced no such continual effects as took place afterwards. We find, moreover, the Cumbri mentioned as composing a part of the army which the scots King David led against stephen, before that country was regularly ceded to the scots; and as in the next reign they composed a part of the English forces, one may infer that their attachment to neither could be very strong. Likewise, when we are told that Cumberland, long before the period of which we are speaking, was ceded to the scots on the condition of paying homage for it" for fear" it should revolt," we may be pretty well satisfied in what light the attachment of its inhabitants to their southern neighbours was viewed: nor is it wonderful, that such attachment was considered as suspicious, when one reflects that these Cumbri were a part of the Britons whom the intrusion of their saxon conquerors had forced to to the northwards, in the same manner as it compelled another portion to a similar refuge amongst the mountains of Wales, and as many of those very saxons were afterwards forced to give way to, and seek refuge from the prevailing power of the Normans. A cession of the country from Tweed to Eden was again made by Edgar to Kenneth, on condition that the inhabitants should retain their ancient name, language, and customs: a cession which seems as if calculated for keeping up broils, for laying the foundation of consequent claims from the English, and for alienating the minds of the inhabitants from both parties. Indeed the independence of their chieftains must have been considerable, and not a little flattered, when Malcolm refused the award of English Peers in his dispute with Rufus concerning his possessions in England, because it had been customary that disputes should be settled by" principal men on the Marches."
After the conquest, we find that the number and dignity of the saxon Refugees in scotland was very great; but as a cause of many very shocking outrages and butcheries that there existed in the Highlanders, and Gallowaymen, an excessive hatred of the English Scots, which hatred they displayed on every opportunity. The Highlanders indeed to this day chuse to be considered as a distinct people from the Lowland Scots, and it is said that a dialect of the Galic, or Erse tongue, was spoke within the last 130 years by the old people in Galloway and its neighbouring parts: thence we are led to conclude, that they are a remnant of those Cumbri or Guidhelian Britons, whose capitol was Dumbarton, and whom their extreme western situation, and hatred of intruders, had in some measure, like the Welsh, prevented from entirely blending with the neighbouring people; and were they not in the accounts of the same times called Gallovegians, one might suspect them to be the Cumbri mentioned before as composing a part of David's army. Be this as it will, sure it is, that such varieties of people frequently gave occasion to quarrels and bloodshed.
We know, moreover, that many of the great men in those parts had possessions on both sides of the Border; nay, the ancestors of Robert Bruce himself were of Cleveland in Yorkshire, before they were Lords of Annandale: such were, however, the men who are said to have invited Haquin of Norway to invade scotland; and after he was defeated at Largs, we find Neville, apprehensive of the revenge of the scottish King, asking for more forces from his master Henry Iii. This may serve for one specimen, out of a history that teems with them, of the small respect paid by such men towards the government under whose protection( little better than nominal indeed) they enjoyed a part, or perhaps the whole of their possessions: nor were such doings confined to times of war; if a peace or a truce checked them for a little, it was only to give occasion to feuds of a more secret nature, and wars carried on in covert, soon to break out and embroil their neighbours.
Alexander of scotland, to revenge the cruelties which King John had committed in his dominions, ravaged Westmoreland and Cumberland in a most compleat and dreadful manner. A sort of accommodation was patched up with him in the reign of Henry Iii. by which he was allowed L. 200 a year in lands whereon no castles stood in Cumberland and Northumberland; a plan which, like the former, was feeding a fire with moist fuel. After the battle of Bannocksburn the desolation in the North of England was still more general: and not to recite a number of particulars, which any one may find in history, I shall drop this subject, with observing, that notwithstanding the great care that was taken in the time of Richard Ii. to settle the disturbances, when it was agreed( to prevent their causes) that thefts should be pursued with hound and horn into either kingdom, and no one on pain of death impede the pursuit; then also the code of laws( such as they were) received their regular compilation: all, notwithstanding, was of no avail; and in the days of Henry Iv. Cumberland and Northumberland were so entirely ravaged, and made desolate, that the King remitted, even after the rebellion of the Piercies, all their taxes and crown-debts.
Vi. I shall next say a little on the relicks of former times to be found in this neighbourhood; and as a detail of very many particulars will be inserted in the account which accompanies the Plans, shall just subjoin the reason why a great number of such relicks may be expected, and do really exist in these parts; and indeed, amidst the veneration excited by such objects, we are apt enough to be curious with respect to the cause that produced them: however, as such an account can only be a very brief recital of general transactions, I hope I shall be excused, if, not attempting any thing particularly calculated for the learned Antiquarian, I recite a few things that may possibly not be unacceptable to a beginner in the study of past ages.
We find Cumberland mentioned as being a distinct kingdom so late as they year 946; and long after that, it had Kings of its own who were almost independent. The tomb of its last King Dunmail is yet to be seen on the confines of Lancashire, on the road that leads from the Vale of st John's, at a place which is called Dunmail Rays. It appears from the materials of this tomb, which is nothing but a large heap of stones, that the ancient rude, and( if I may be allowed the expression) druidical rites of sepulture, were still in vogue; or at least, that those of christianity had not yet taken place. The prodigious tract of country over which the first Bishops of Lendisfairn presided, and the annual circuits which they made for the purposes of conversion, add to the truth of this observation. History indeed, always says, that Cumberland was brought into subjection by the saxons later than any other part of England; and this will account for the many British relicks to be found there. The Britons might, it is true, be Christians before the arrival of the saxons, but the monument of King Dunmail shews that they had not, even long after that, adopted the practice in general of what we call Christian Burial: from thence we may infer with respect to other things, and indeed easily bring manifold authorities to support the various circumstances arising from such an inference, independent of that solitude, and that wildness, which, as they obstruct commerce, prevent innovation. I shall but instance one: Everard, Abbot of Holm Cultreyn, who lived in the reign of Henry Ii. tells us, that the name of Thorsby is from a temple which the Pagans had there; and that a place near it called Carthew,( at present Cardew) signifies the Fen of God. I might mention also, that the village Kirkby Thor in Westmoreland reminds one of the same barbarous God that Thorsby does; and they both, along with many more, indicate a long and tenacious remembrance of former prejudices. Nor do such places seem to have been afterwards, probably from their situation, favourable to regular institutions of a religious kind: the church of Bewcastle( which was indeed exposed to enemies in a particular manner) had in the days of Edward I. an income of L. 19 per annum, in those of Henry Viii. of L. 2. and in the time of war, Nohing.
With respect to Roman antiquities I need only observe, that two thirds of the stationary forces which they maintained in Britain were, according to the best historians, employed on the Borders; where the Romans themselves relate, that their soldiers carried on a business literally the same as moss-trooping with the barbarians. Their double rampart was afterwards built; and then the Barbarians passed the solway in their carrochs, finding there an unprotected coast, and an opportunity of renewing their ravages; this obliged the defenders to double their vigilance, and increase the number of their posts in that quarter. We find mention of the great stilicho himself having his camp at Elne Foot, on that same coast, for the purpose of watching the motions of so restless an enemy; and the vestiges of such a camp, together with inscriptions on stones found in certain parts of it, are yet to be seen. The Romans have, in consequence of such circumstances, left many marks of the attention which they paid to the Western boundary of their empire; the remains of their encampments, their roads, their rampire, and their religion, are many, and some of their fortresses are not yet altogether in ruins.
I know of nothing particular with respect to the saxons in these parts: the names of towns in saxon terminations are pretty much the same as in other counties of England; only that of Barrow is, perhaps owing to the nature of the country, more frequent than elsewhere. The conical tumuli are also very common; but as I know not how to distinguish saxon remains from Danish with any degree of certainty, or( in many cases) either of them from British, I shall leave them to be examined more accurately by others. There is reason however to believe that the Danes made their first settlement in the North of England: they began with Northumberland before any other part; and very long ago are said by historians to have been defeated at Burgh upon sands, in a field at the eastern end of the village which still retains the name of the battle. Indeed it was likely enough that they should first attack the more remote parts of England, and might soonest effect a settlement there; I am therefore inclined to think that the greater number of such remains are Danish. The short duration of the power of those conquerors, and their being, before they acquired the supreme dominion, almost blended with the saxons, did not give them an opportunity of making great alterations in the language or the names of places. I may just mention, that Threlkeld, Melmerby, and Ousby are said to have their names from Thorquil, Melmer, and Ulf, sons of Haldan the Dane or Norwegian, and that a few more derivations of this kind are to be found in old writings.
The times later than these in a manner explain themselves; and Expectations will easily conceive, from the general tenor of history, in what a vast quantity, and of what kind the vestiges of former ages may occur on the Borders; the desolation and solitude which often took place did not destroy and utterly deface the remnants of those works, which were no longer formidable, but by protecting them from the unthinking industry of agriculture; and the fastidious nicety of refinement and innovation, served, like the volcanic crust above Herculaneum, to preserve them. I speak this, alluding not only to the buildings of those ages, of which speed numbers, 23 castles in Cumberland, besides the seats of gentlemen, every one of which was a fortress; or to those encampments which the continual marches and countermarches of armies made necessary; or to the fields of those battles which followed of course between such enemies; or to the religious buildings and gifts meant to expiate their manifold crimes; but to the manners of men, with respect to which a large field is here laid open to the Antiquarian.
To these observations on particular and local circumstances I shall add another, or a thing which was extensive to a terrible degree; for such was that unequalled pestilence which prevailed in the times of the third Edward, and Philip de Valois, as if those times had wanted any thing to make them taken notice of in history, that pestilence which, having raged in all the known parts of Africa and Asia, traversed Europe at length, compleating the havoc of a general war in France, and of an incursive one in the North of England: the scots at this period took and burned the town of Penrith on a fair-day, carried off the inhabitants and country-people whom they found there, and sold them; but carried along with them an infection, which is said to have swept off above a third of the nation. I mention this, because many vestiges of this plague, and dismal tales concerning it yet occur, and because the monkish writers of the North of England have left accounts of the destruction it occasioned, not unlike, if we except for the difference of population, to that of the charter-house church-yard( I think that is the name) in London.
A few loose observations shall finish this subject. The monuments of the Romans which have been found in Cumberland shew, that far from imposing their own divinities upon the nations, they even acquiesced in the belief of those whom they vanquished, and erected altars to the gods of the parts where they resided. In later times things were altered, and the characteristic monuments are those of barbarism, cruelty, and bloodshed. Whatever courage continual danger may give to the human mind, it cannot be favourable, on several accounts, to improvements or changes either in religion or manners: under its impressions there is hardly leisure to think of innovations; it induces moreover a superstitious dread, which will not easily permit men to be bold in speculation, or dare to annul at once the authority of those gods whom they have been taught to consider as their protectors. such a life leaves no room for the ideas of improved society, nor will it permit the niceties of learning to grow upon the rudeness of antiquated superstition. Whilst it prevents study and refinement at home, it also repels the means of them from abroad; by threatening their teachers with the same, or, as was often the case, with greater perils. such I apprehend is the principal cause of the numerous vestiges of ancient manners to be found in the Borders. We have no doubt how late it was before any degree of civilization rose, and find on record under what difficulties, and at how modern a period, Christianity acquired an establishment there: for though it might be early known and preached on the Western Border, yet avarice and rapine in a manner quenched it, nor had it a seminary or fixed seat from whence it could diffuse itself. Even after the pious bounty of the Royal Earl of Huntingdon had erected Holm Cultram, and the murderous hospitality of the Lord of Gillsland had given occasion to the building of Lanercost, we find that those very houses were levelled at times, or burned, amidst the general ruin of the neighbourhood, and the Priests butchered, or flying from scenes of almost-unequalled wildness and desolation. Numerous safeguards,( for so they are called,) or lodgings beneath the ground, which also are yet to be seen, indicate the horrid nature of these transactions, and hint what the manners of men must have been in those times; for they were times when ferocious customs struck at the very existence of society, bidding defiance to all means of civilizations; when laws held them in with a palsied hand, and the dependence of the inhabitants on a regular government was uncertain and unregarded.
Vii. As the business of the following Plans is to conduct the strangers to those places which furnish the views and landscapes of different kinds in the neighbourhood of these Lakes, and which the taste of the times has been so pleased with, I shall offer nothing upon that subject here, but an observation which I think the greatest artist will excuse: It is, that those pictures impart the most grateful sensations to the mind, which are expressive, not only of general beauties, or such as may be found common to most places, but of the particular nature and local genius of the country from the objects of which they are drawn. Thus a funny day, a stream of water, a ruin, or other kind of building, may be with almost every where, and may be sorted in such a manner as to form a pleasant view: But the solemnity of those vapours which hang upon mountains in drizzly and gleamy weather, the shades which they occasion, their silent mixing and rolling together, their magnifying effects, with the tops of the mountains peeping above, as it were in another world, lead away the mind from scenes of cultivation, and present ideas of a new, but not less pleasing kind. It is unnatural, at least it feels so to me, and subversive of the general tenor of the piece, to be studious of introducing copies of the works of man, and numerous living figures, amidst such solitudes. For example, I have seen a drawing of Dun Dornadilla, in the North Highlands, which seemed to me excellent in its kind: there was a pensive loneliness about that ruined pile which corresponded well with the dreary nakedness of the vast hills that rose around it. On the contrary, I have seen views of the mountains contiguous to these lakes, at the bases of which were delineated chaises and waggons: such vehicles might indeed possibly be dragged along there, but they were far from being,( if I may be allowed the expression,) native objects, or consonant with the rest of the piece.
I may here be asked, what I meant in my seventh paragraph, at the beginning of this Introduction, mentioning the affinity between painting and poetry? I may also be told, that many have heard of the scenes to be met with near these lakes; but where are the poets, or the poetry? As I have not leisure for answering such questions at present, I shall leave them to be resolved at another time.
Viii. I pass next to a subject which falls more immediately in my way, and is more intimately connected with my present business. I mean a general account of the soil and weather of these parts; under which head, though I may take notice of some things common to many places, especially mountainous ones, yet I do not think them on that account less proper here.
several authors, who have mentioned the soil of these counties, have represented it as unfavourable to the growth of timber; which I believe very true with respect to the mosses, and some other places; yet every inhabitant knows, that the glebe in general, if left to itself, that is, if exempted from the plough and the scythe, nor trod by cattle, would soon be covered with trees, and that the country would become one large forest; and this shews that its natural disposition is not to become a naked woald, but a desart of wood. A desart of wood it has indeed been, though in many places as poor as that of almost any country, and as ill calculated for the purposes of agriculture; particularly in the mosses that are amongst, or perhaps upon the mountains: these however have their woods; the birch, the wild-ash, the wythe, as it is called, and some others, are disposed to grow even in the wildest situations: slow in their growth, it is true, and for the most part stunted; which may be attributed to their being grazed upon by sheep, and naked to the winds; for as those places which seem at present most unpromising with respect to this kind of vegetation, and where( particularly in peat-mosses on the tops of pretty high hills) no man can easily persuade himself that a stick of any kind would grow, are found yet filled with the roots, trunks, and branches of trees of very different sizes; it seems as if those places did but want their original encouragement to become forests again. It may indeed be alledged, in opposition to such a thought, that the soil itself has undergone a material change, that the fall of the woods and the stagnation of waters has given birth to that vegetation which constitutes peat-mosses, and that this vegetation in an accumulation of putrid vegetable matter. If this be the case, yet still such putrid matter is found to be that of the roots of that plant, which in these parts is called Bent, and not of timber, which is generally preserved entire; and as this Bent seems the native and aboriginal growth of such Moors, who can prove that it did not exist at the same time as the woods, and that it did not occasion mosses then? Independent, however, of this, the circumstances which have fallen in the way of my observation make me think it far from impossible, that, were these countries left desolate by man and the tamer animals, for a great number of years that the ancient appearances would arise at large, and a sylvan wildness efface the labours of the husbandman: this would begin probably in the warmer and more fertile places, and proceed gradually, one tree sheltering and encouraging another, to those which are more exposed and barren. There are still whole forests left on the sides of some hills, where many of the trees find nutriment almost upon the bare rock; they are also to be found in the more inaccessible parts of others, that are elsewhere naked. I do not indeed know of any positive evidence that can be produced, either on this side of the question or on the opposite one, neither does the discussion of it belong particularly to my subject; yet it may be proper to mention, as analogous to what has gone before, that in three old manuscripts I have found mention made of the porklings which ran wild in the woods growing on the sides of the hills above Mungrisdale; that these porklings belonged to the Monks, who had a chauntry at a place called stow in that neighbourhood; that from these Monks the chapel has a part of its name, and the other part from the old word signifying swine. In Grisdale also you will, as in many other places, be told by some person or another, that in former times the trees were so close together, that a man has gone a certain distance, or ascended such or such a hill, without touching the ground, and merely travelling from the top of one tree to that of another; nor are these times so very remote, but your informer will in general tell you the name of the man whose forefather, at the distance of three or four ages, he was; yet a place less likely for the growth of timber, or more devoid of it at present, will not easily be found in the North of England. Even this, however, does not militate against what I formerly advanced; for trees will grow there, if encouraged; and some kinds, as the asp, seem particularly disposed to propagate themselves. But the forest and its wild inhabitants generally shrink from the presence of man!
It may be asked, at what period this general disforesting took place, and what was the particular occasion of it? I believe that no regular answer can be given to this question. It is said that the Romans were very industrious in destroying the woody fastnesses in which their enemies took shelter; which may be very true, and the effects of this industry very general, and yet enough may be found for future ages to do, from a renewal of those very causes, and of that wildness against which the Romans had combated. I have heard also, that King John was very intent on destroying the forests of the North of England, and caused a great quantity of ground to be cleared; but neither of these causes affect much the disforesting of which we now speak, of which the effects are at this day so visible, and which, at least in my opinion, was the work of many ages, and undertaken on very different occasions. Great roads generally carry a degree of cultivation into the particular district through which they pass, and the less important ones, or by-ways, may be supposed to have a similar effect; though we find that in some places of Cumberland those effects were often, nay, for the most part interrupted by the ruggedness of the country, and the robbers that infested such ways. The neighbourhood also of towns and fortified places furnished occasion by the shelter which such places gave to small towns; as was and yet is the case with respect to Carlisle and its adjacent villages, together with many others scattered up and down the country near the ruins of the fortresses; others again owe their origin to the collections of sheds and booths under which those lodged who watched the cattle, or the fords of rivers. Of these I have made mention before; but those districts have for the most part been cultivated at a later period than the rest, where the houses stand distinct from one another, each in their own portion of land, and with its own name; for such were inclosed, or at least marked out all at once; and every man fixed his residence in the portion allotted to him, as is at present not uncommon on the inclosure of pasture-grounds. But this implies a security not much experienced in former times; and of such kind of regular allotment we have no records, but such as are modern, in comparison of what we know concerning those things which I have already mentioned, as giving occasion to villages, and of course to some degree of cultivation; to as much at least as might, however confined and imperfect, and however far from general, supply the inhabitants with bread, whilst the waste lands supported their cattle, and the woods furnished their game.
When therefore I say that the nature of the soil of these countries particularly inclines them to become a forest, I comprise their general character; which I cannot better exemplify, than by taking notice of the prodigious oaks, yews, elms, and other trees which lately were and indeed yet are visible in many places. I may add, that the veins of minerals are numerous in the mountains; that the black-lead of Borrodale is almost a peculiarity; nor is the slate of some quarries much less than one.
I subjoin here two or three quotations respecting the first settlement of men on certain parts of the county of Cumberland, or at least the first settlement we are acquainted with, that it may be more clearly understood what was meant in the paragraph preceding the last. We find it mentioned, that Henry Iii. in the third year of his reign, disforested that part of the Forest of Englewood which is contiguous to the town of Dalston. William de la Wast Dale, a hermit, was the first who made any inclosures in sabergham. Bewcastle, as it is now called, formerly belonged to the Barony of Brough; it was laid waste entirely by the incursions of the scots, until its old masters undertook, after a considerable space of time, to feed their cattle there in summer, and constructed booths and huts for the herdsmen: those becoming permanent habitations, are said to have given the name of Booth Castle, or Bew Castle, to the old Roman fortress which stood there. Adard de Logili, Lord of Wigton, was the first who inclosed a parcel of ground near Carlisle, called Blackhill, from a rising ground amidst it covered with black heath: Cardew, in the same neighbourhood, was made habitable in the time of Rufus: Raughton was a desart much later, and was first cleared by one Ughtred( whose posterity were called de Raughton) being held by him as a fee-farm for taking care of the hawks in Englewood for the King: skelton( formerly scale-town, or Villa ad scalingas) was civilized by the Boyvill of Livington, who built scales here for the watchers of his cattle anno 1120, in the reign of Henry I. It was a tract covered with whins, and indeed such did its contiguous waste-ground remain, till within these last 20 years. Plumpton was first disparked by Henry Viii. and rendered an habitation of men; it was afterwards made a manor, and given by James I. to the Lord Maxwell of scotland: moreover, the word Thwaite, Moor, Wood,& c. which make a part of the names of so many villages, evidence their situation in former times. Omitting, however, further extracts from the accounts which are furnished by manuscripts, or are printed, I shall just quote the relation of the first settlement of Caldbeck and its neighbouring places. A high way, or beaten street( the vestiges of which are yet to be seen) extended from Westmoreland along the mountain called High Street into the eastern side of Cumberland, and thence westward through Caldbeck; a passage than which one more ugly, crooked, uneven, or dangerous, cannot easily be conceived. Caldbeck was, long after the conquest, a savage waste, untamed by human industry; and the rest of this road lay through grounds still wilder in their nature, and for the most part utterly devoid to this day of improvement, of which indeed they are not capable. Robbers, therefore, who haunted the woods and mountains through which it passed, made it exceedingly dangerous; on which account Randolph Engaine, chief forester of Englewood, allowed the Prior of Carlisle to erect an hospital for the relief of such passengers as might happen to be assaulted, and stripped or wounded by those robbers, or stopped in their journey by the snows and storms of Winter. The Prior had also leave to inclose a part where the church now stands, and this inclosure became afterwards a portion of the church-glebe; but the forester would not grant to this establishment the right of the soil, because large deer lodged in the woods of the mountains around it, and the whole district was then used as a park or forest; besides, the right of the soil belonged properly to the heirs of the Barons of Allerdale, of the state of which family at this time a pretty regular account is given. After the foundation of the hospital a church was also built in honour of st Mungo and Caldbeck; Uppiton( Uppertown) became fully inhabited; Hesket next, and Halt Cleugh( or High Cliff, from the rock above it) were tilled, being likely for producing corn, and called Caldbeck Underfell. The Priors of Carlisle were, by William de Vescy and Burga his wife, and by dame Alice Romeley lady of Allerdale, made patrons of the rectory; upon which, about the reign of King John, they dissolved the hospital, and endowed the church with the lands belonging to it. In the reign of Henry Iii. one John Francigena, or French, kinsman of Gilbert Franois, or French, Lord of Routhcliff, was parson of Caldbeck, and procured a large inclosure upon the adjoining hill, which is called Warnel Fell; but the Monks of Holm Cultram now interfered, and raised such a litigation with respet to his right to this parcel, that he was glad, for the sake of peace, to consign half of it to them. As memorials of these affairs, there still remain several names of places in and about Caldbeck, such as that of Friar Hall, and of Parson Park, or of the inclosure upon Warnell Fell that has already been mentioned.
so much for the soil and its first cultivation. It will probably be said, that in such circumstances agriculture must be in a state much inferior to that of the other counties of England; nor is this wholly without foundation: but the last twenty years have introduced a mighty change; and the present spirit of improvement and industry bids fair for obliterating every such distinction, at least as far as the nature of the country will allow.
I pass next to some observations on the winds and weather of the vicinity of these Lakes; with respect to which, though nothing may offer different from what may be found in other mountainous parts of Britain, yet, as I said before, I do not consider them on that account less worthy of notice. I do not mean by winds such as blow from particular quarters, as if any such prevailed here more than elsewhere, but those agitations of the air, or of something else, which are known by the names of Bottom Wind, Bosom Wind, and Helm Wind.
The Bottom Wind has its name from being supposed formerly, by the country people, to arise from the bottom of those lakes which are situated amongst mountains, for I know of none in a level country troubled with it. It is indeed puzzling enough to conceive why, in a day when hardly a single breeze is a-stir, the surface of a lake, which is as smooth as a mirror, should, without any apparent cause, begin to be in motion, which in less than an hour rises to a considerable swell, with a direction sometimes to one quarter and sometimes to another; yet such is really the case, and similar appearances have been observed in some of the Alpine lakes, though it has been imputed as a lie to Buchannan, that he tells of a similar phaenomenon being frequent in the lake of Lennox. I have formed a theory to account for it, but as I have not had the opportunity of making a sufficient number of observations, shall omit it here.
The Bosom Wind is quite a different affair, and takes place wherever one object in the direction of the wind overlooks another, or universally where any thing breaks the current of the air that would otherwise impinge directly on the objects beyond it; this is particularly the case where large rocks screen things below them from the direct force of the wind, yet subject them to what is called a Bosom Wind. Near the sources of the Caldew is a valley called swineside, never visited by the rays of the sun during the Winter months: on the northern side of the hill which overshadows it in this manner, and at a considerable height above the valley, is a pretty large bason of water, called Booth Scale-tarn; three fourths of which is surrounded either by an exceedingly steep heath, or by entire rocks, and the other fourth, being the side right above the valley, gives an outlet to the water. A road leads from the low grounds to this lake, and from the outlet winds above half round it, gradually ascending to some rocks where are slate-quarries, on account of which it was first made; near these quarries the road is a considerable height above the lake, and the perpendicular height of the hill above it cannot be less than four hundred yards; on the other side of this height the descent is at an angle of perhaps fifty degrees, but on this at a much greater. On a wet and windy day, in Autumn, I once took a ride with two companions to this lake: the wind blew directly over the height which I mentioned, not striking upon us except in uncertain puffs, on account of the intervention of the hill; that is, the wind, inpinging on the inclined plane of the other side of the hill, was compelled, towards the summit of it, in an oblique direction, its powers continually increasing, and itself being more and more condensed by the addition of fresh air pressing on its course in a similar diverted manner. This current at the summit met with the regular wind, and after striking violently on the mass of air moving in higher regions, was, by means of a combination of the weight and motion of that air, at last repelled into the tranquil and stagnant air beneath, where there was not a resistance from motion, and thus occasioned the wind of which I am speaking. It was this wind which amused me very much at that time: I was looking at the lake beneath, and saw it grow black near the center; the spot where this first appeared changed directly into a livid appearance, by being contrasted with the rest of the water, through which from this spot, as a fixed point, rolled concentric circles of waves towards the circumference in a manner, whilst the center itself remained quite smooth and undisturbed. The wind which produced this agitation immediately after ascended the sides on the bason, and affected us with very great force; I could also observe the heath on the other sides of the pool shook by the same, and in the same main direction from a... very forcibly. such was the effects that I observed: I am told, however, that others have known a wind of the same kind, in dry weather, snatch the water out of the pool, and scatter it as spray through the whole of this imprisoned space.
As I am now to speak of the Helm Wind, it may be necessary, for the sake of those readers who have not seen any thing of the kind, to premise, that Cross Fell is one - continued ridge, stretching without any branches, or even subject to mountains, except two or three conical hills called Pikes, from the N.N.W. to the s.s. F. from the neighbourhood of Gillsland almost to Kirkby Steven, that is above 40 miles. Its direction is nearly in a right line, and the height of its different parts not very unequal; but is in general such, that some of its more eminent parts are exceeded in altitude by few hills in Britain, and perhaps not by any in England. As it rises in the interior part of the country, it has in some degree an effect on the weather on its different sides, similar to that which is experienced by the inhabitants of the Malabar and Coromandel coasts, occasioned by the mountainous range that is extended from Cape Comorin along the Peninsula of Indus: For what are called shedding-Winds generally blow on the contrary sides of this mountain from opposite quarters; also the rains which come from the Atlantic, and those which drive from the German Ocean, seldom extend with any great power beyond its summits, being sometimes entirely spent and exhausted upon them: so that Northumberland, and the corresponding parts of Cumberland, however similar in many respects, may in this be considered as different climates.
Upon the upper part of this lofty ridge there often rests, in dry and sunny weather, a prodigious wreath of clouds, involving its whole extent, and reaching sometimes more and sometimes less than half way from its summit to its base; at this time, the other mountains in different quarters are for the most part clear of mist, nor are there any signs of rain. This mighty collection of vapour exhibits an appearance uncommonly grand and solemn; whether we regard its different shades descending from that gleaming whiteness with which the sun tinges the volumes of its upper surface, to that indiscriminate gloominess which to the distant spectator renders the plains beneath almost invisible; or the tranquility which it preserves amidst the commotion issuing from it, and the currents of air which must be supposed to prevail in the higher regions of the atmosphere. Or, again, if we consider its vast bulk, which notwithstanding still represents the form of the mountain( corresponding with its elevations and depressions) so that the boldest head of Cross Fell, which is somewhat to the northward of the middle part of its range, is still distinguishable even in its Helm; for such is the name of that heap of vapour from whence the wind of which we are treating issues. When this heap first gathers upon the hill, there is seen above it a black streak of cloud continually flying off, and continually fed from the white one, which is the real Helm: this is called the Helm Bar, from its being supposed to bar or obstruct the winds that burst forth upon the vallies beneath as soon as it wholly vanishes: its direction is parallel to that of the white cloud, and it seems in continual motion, as if boiling, or at least agitated by a violent wind; and indeed the wind which really does follow its removal is sometimes prodigious violent, varying with respect to the extent of territory which it affects, in proportion to the force and direction of what I shall here call the Real Winds. sometimes when these are its direct antagonists, and in full force, it does not reach further than two or three miles; nor do I know, that, even without such impediment, it ever extends further than thirteen or fourteen; being interrupted in its progress by the vis inertiae of the air at large, or by some cause arising from the impulse of contrary currents. However, though it always bears a certain proportion to the force and direction of the real winds, its own intrinsic force is not always equal, nor is it found so, even at the foot of the hill; where, on account of the shortness of its course, the action of contrary currents, or the resistance of the air, cannot be supposed to have had any material effect in changing the degree of its power, or of interrupting its progress. It may however be remembered as a truth, that, near the base of the mountain, it is at times excessively strong, bearing almost every thing before it, though at the distance of a very few miles not felt at all.
such is the Helm Wind generated in that enormous cloud, which, like a helmet, covers the summit of Cross Fell. It is here particularly favoured by circumstances; for on one side there is a plain of above thirty miles in breadth in some places, and on the other no hills to rival that from whence it comes. This wind is not much taken notice of in natural history; yet the Dutch, by the iron chains with which they are obliged to moor their ships at the Cape of Good Hope, bear ample testimony to the fury of such an one. It hath been met with by late voyagers in the south-seas; it is said to have been felt in the straits of Gibraltar; and I doubt not but mariners and travellers have found it in many other places, though they may not have observed it with care, or may have given it different names. I apprehend that the land-breeze in the West Indies, though less violent and more regular, is similar to it; and I doubt not but there may be a helm-wind from almost every hill covered with a cloud in certain kinds kinds of weather, though the resistance of similar winds from neighbouring hills may prevent its being taken notice of.
It may be remarked of this wind, that it generally blows from Cross Fell longest in the spring, when the sun has somewhat warmed the air beneath, and does not cease till it has effectually cooled it: thus it sometimes continues for a fortnight or three weeks, which I consider as a peculiarity of the Helm Wind of Cross Fell. As such therefore, though I have not leisure to attempt the discussion of its various phaenomena, such as that of the bar,& c. I hope shall not do a thing unpleasant to the philosophic reader, if I attempt to give an account of its general cause, which I shall do on the following simple principles.
The chymists know, that evaporation produces cold, and that of aether is remarkable enough. To those who have not seen their method, or heard of it, I shall mention that of the brewers, who throw quick-lime into their large cauldrons when they want to cool them suddenly; and the effect, I apprehend, depends upon similar principles, though exhibited in a different manner: any man, however, may have a cheap proof of the cold produced by evaporation, by plunging his hand into water, and holding it up to the sun or wind, or both, at any season, to dry. Even waving all these as causes of the cold to be expected from vapours, the fogs hovering upon rivers are a sensible proof that the thing is so; which any one must have experienced still more forcibly, who has met with a rainy cloud, or a mere fog, upon the mountains in warm weather, and will have felt that such a cloud, even at a distance, can obtrude a piercing cold upon the warmest day in summer. Now, whether it is by attraction,( which I think it is,) or any thing else, that hills detain clouds which wander in the region of their summits, belongs not to my purpose, since it is a thing known universally to exist wherever there are hills: and Cross Fell, probably from its vast length, height, and loneliness, is peculiarly powerful in detaining them; for it intercepts many, and there is no hill near whose attraction, or effects upon the winds,& c. may serve to remove them: thus they gather not into that shadowy indiscriminate mass of vapours which settle on hills before and during rains, but such as I have described. It will be easily conceived, from what it premised, that such an assembly of vapours will produce a proportional degree of cold around it; whereas the height of any hills in Britain, without such a cause, or a brisk wind, is not sufficient to produce any great degree of it. I have felt a suffocating warmth on the tops of some of the highest of them in a calm day, even when drifts of snow still remained, and were far beneath me. such cold, therefore, must occasion a corresponding density in that portion of air on which it operates; and when the sun, by that more-continued action of his rays which belongs to valleys, has warmed the air in the country beneath in the day, or left it so in the evening, that air must be proportionally rarified; and becoming lighter than that in a higher region, or a least lighter with respect to its situation, the equilibrium which fluids wish to preserve will consequently be interrupted: the higher air will thenceforward rush down to keep up this equilibrium, and in its course occasion the wind of which we are speaking.
I believe this account will correspond with all the circumstances attending the Helm Wind of Cross Fell. I think it necessary to mention again, that it blows until it has entirely cooled the air of the adjoining country,( for itself is very chill,) and is almost always terminated by a rain, which restores, or to which succeeds a general warmth, and into which the Helm seems to resolve itself.
It may be also an amusement to the traveller, to take notice of the old-fashioned modes of foretelling the different kinds of weather yet in use amongst the rustics of every part, notwithstanding the general introduction of barometers; for it is by these only that they know, with any degree of certainty, what the rising or falling of the mercury indicates. The inhabitants of every mountainous tract have greater numbers of them than those of the plains, because their weather is subject to greater and more numerous variations. Pliny has taken notice of many of those signs which were in vogue amongst the Romans; he has, however, done little more than copy them from Virgil: and it is a thing not unworthy our curiosity to observe what a similarity there is between the prognostics of countries so remote from each other; a similarity which, however, proves that they have both been founded on a strict observation of the nature of things, and that they carry along with them not a little of that authority which is due to truth; though we can assign no better reason for many of them at this day, than what Virgil has done in a truly philosophic manner, and the most exquisitely beautiful language. Thus the swell of waters in the Firths, the sound from the mountains, the deeper murmur of woods, the motions of sea-Mews,& c. the lofty flights of the Moss Drum, Mire Drumble or Bittern, the shooting of stars, the mock-battles of Crows, and indeed almost all Virgil's prognostics, with a great many more not mentioned by him, are still taken notice of, and furnish to the attentive observer no inconsiderable knowledge of what is to come. I will add to those already mentioned, that appearance in the heavens called Noah's Ark; which being occasioned by a brisk West Wind rolling together a large number of small bright clouds into the form of a ship's hull, and exhibiting a beautiful mottled texture, is pointed North and south, and said to be an infallible sign of rain to happen within twenty - four hours.
Thus have I finished what I intended to say as prefatory to the descriptions inlcuded in this Work. I acknowledge that my principal meaning in the hints which I have thrown out, and the observations which I have made, has been to stimulate others whose leisure and abilities are greater, and whose opportunities of information may be more extensive, to prosecute those, or similar subjects, on a larger scale: for I am fully persuaded, that a great deal of good information remains yet to be gathered, and may with ease be collected in these parts, not only by the inquirer after ancient manners, but by the Etymologist, the Grammarian, the Historian of the works both of men and nature, the Antiquarian with respect to inscriptions and coins, the Botanist, and the Painter. As to myself, it is necessary further to acknowledge, that being obliged, in this part of the Work, to quote principally from memory, I may possibly have fallen into some inaccuracies. That being immersed in business of a very different nature, and applying to this only at stolen intervals, there will be found in the stile a sort of inequality, which the human mind, from its different aptitude and vigour at different seasons, and after different degrees of exercise, cannot prevent: and that from thinking on some of the subjects, I may possibly here and there have been led, as it were by sympathy, to the use of quaint or obsolete expressions, and may not have preserved that classical purity of language which I could have wished. I am conscious also, that my arrangements may be found fault with; and to this charge I must answer, that not intending, when I set forward, to write any regular essay, nor ought further than few cursory notes, I paid no attention to that circumstance; till one idea calling forth others, and those in their turns giving birth to fresh ones, I began to startle at the bulk of this Introduction, deficient as it is in form and order, and forthwith endeavoured to contract my observations into as little room as possible. I must also frankly own, that the necessity of publishing the Whole Work as soon as possible, on account of the delays it has already met with, utterly prevents me from transcribing it in a more correct form, and compels me to present the first copy of this to the Public. such therefore as it is, I hope, that if any new information is furnished by it, the faults, which must from the circumstances of its execution be attached to it, will be overlooked and forgiven.
A sURVEY of the Lakes Of Westmorland, Cumberland and Lancashire, With The History Of The Places Adjacent. 
Contents Of Book First. Chap. I. Westmorland. 
 Harts Horn Tree,-- Countess's Pillar,-- Brougham Castle,-- the Hospital,-- View of Carleton Hall,-- Brougham Hall,-- Lowther Bridge,-- Clifton,-- Ancient customary service at Clifton,-- the Battle of Clifton Moor,-- the Village of Lowther,-- the Lowther Family,-- Arthur's Round Table,-- General sketch of Westmoreland,-- Mayburgh.
Chap. Ii.  Cumberland. 
 Emont Bridge,-- Carleton Hall,-- Carleton Family,-- sir Thomas Carleton's Expedition into scotland,-- Meal Cross.
Chap. Iii.  Penrith. 
 The Public Buildings,-- The Antiquities in the Church Yard,-- The Giant's Cave,-- The Castle,-- The Beacon.
Chap. Iv.  Ullswater.

 An Old Cairn,-- Dalemain,-- Dacre Castle,-- Hutton John,-- Powley,-- Dunmallard,-- Benedictine Monastery,-- Carthanic,-- Water Millock,-- Astonishing Echoes,-- Old Church,-- Gowbarrow,-- strange Anecdote of a Clergyman,-- Kailpot Cragg,-- Hallin Hagg,-- Lyulph's Tower,-- Airey Force,-- Customs of the Tenure of Airey,-- General Hunting for the Destruction of Vermin,-- Householm,-- Glencoyn,-- Helveylyn,-- Journey to Helveylyn,-- Patterdale,-- Martindale,-- How Town,-- swarth-Beck,-- Cataracts,-- Different species of Fish, and Manner of fishing,-- Powley,-- Bower Bank,-- Barton school,-- Barton Church,-- Thorp, Tirril and stockbridge,-- Yanwath,-- Dudley Deal,-- High street,-- Dixon's Fall,-- General Account.
Book First. Westmorland. Chap. I.

 Harts Horn Tree,-- Countess's Pillar,-- Brougham Castle,-- the Hospital,-- View of Carleton Hall,-- Brougham Hall,-- Lowther Bridge,-- Clifton,-- Ancient customary service at Clifton,-- the Battle of Clifton Moor,-- the Village of Lowther,-- the Lowther Family,-- Arthur's Round Table,-- General sketch of Westmorland,-- Mayburgh.
I sHALL begin my observations at the Countess's Pillar, where likewise my plans commence: I shall, however, exceed this bound, to take notice of a very large Oak Tree in Whinfield Park, called the Harts Horn Tree. Concerning this tree there is a tradition, confirmed by Anne Countess of Pembroke in her memoirs, that an hart was run by a single dog from this place to Red Kirk in scotland and back again: when they came near this tree the hart leaped the wall, but the dog, worn out with fatigue, was unable to follow him, and died there; the hart, equally fatigued, could proceed no farther, and in this situation they were found by the hunters, the dog dead on one side of the wall, and the deer on the other. In memory of this remarkable chace, the hart's horns were fixed upon this tree, whence it obtained its name; and as all extraordinary events were in those days recorded in rhymes we find the following popular one upon this occasion, from which we learn the dog's name likewise:
" Hercules killed Hart of Greece," And Hart of Greece killed Hercules."
This story appears to have been literally true, as the scots preserve it without any variation, and add, that it happened in the year 1333 or 1334, when Edward Baliol King of scots came to hunt with Robert de Clifford in his domains at Appleby and Brougham. I cannot, however, help thinking the Countess is mistaken in calling the dog a Grey Hound, as he must have run upwards of 80 miles, even supposing the deer to have taken the direct road; and this no one, who is acquainted with the nature of dogs, can suppose a grey-hound capable of performing.
We now come to the Countess's Pillar, which is twelve feet high, and built of hewn stone: it has a large quadrangular capital, each of whose faces answers to one of the cardinal points. On the East, West and south, are dials, and on the North, the following inscription:
" This Pillar was erected A.D. 1656, by the Right Honourable Anne Countess of" Pembroke, and sole heir of the Right Honourable George Earl of Cumberland, for" a memorial of her last parting, in this place, with her good and pious mother the" Right Honourable Margaret Countess Dowager of Cumberland, the 2d of April" 1616. In memory whereof she has left an annuity of L. 4 to be distributed to the" poor within the Parish of Brougham, every 2d day of April for ever, upon the stone" hereby. Laus Deo." This money was secured to be paid out of certain lands at Brougham; but afterwards, when those lands came into the possession of James Bird, he transferred the security to some lands at Yanwath.
The next place worthy the traveller's notice is Brougham Castle; a fine old ruin, built of reddish free stone. Like most of our Northern strong-holds, this castle is built in a square form, with its sides facing the cardinal points; three of which have been defended by a ditch, and the other( the North side) is close to the River Emont. No place can exhibit more striking remains of that gloomy strength for which these edifices of defence were so remarkable; arched vaults, winding passages in the walls, so narrow as not to admit more than one person at once; the doors to these passages contracted to a mere hole, through which no one can enter without stooping; and the remains of vast bolts and massy hinges, give us a lively idea of those times of danger and jealousy, when the lord was almost a prisoner in his own castle.
some of these vaults and holes are as curious as they are difficult of access; one of which contains what is called the sweating Pillar, from its being continually covered with a moisture or dew. This vault should appear to have been the dungeon or keep where prisoners were confined, and is situated under the main body of the building; its walls are four or five yards thick, through which are several dark passages, some open, others blocked up. In the centre stands the pillar, which, at its top, where it reaches the roof of the vault, divides itself into eight branches; these branches are reflected along the curvature of the vault, like the arms of a tree; thus preserving, even in a dungeon, the true Gothic stile of architecture. The extremities of these branches terminate near the ground in deformed heads of animals, such as we constantly see in the buildings of our ancestors; and each of these heads holds in its mouth an iron ring, probably intended for the chaining of unruly and riotous prisoners. Part of the roof is now broken, and that side of the pillar opposite to the breach is now become dry, which furnishes us with a solution of the phaenomenon of the sweating.
Cambden calls Brougham Castle the Brovoniacum, and tells us, that the word signifies, that a company or band of defencers lay there, and adds, that there was a beautiful town there. For this he quotes Antonine, who places the Brovoniacum 20 Italian miles from Verterae: nor is it improbable that the foundation of this Castle was laid by the Romans, as the Roman causeway which leads from Carlisle, by the Ala Petriana, passes this place, Kirkby Thore, and Brough, under stainmore.
 Kirby Thore lyes about a mile from Temple Sowerby, and is a place of very great antiquity; it had its name from a Temple of the saxon god Thor,( or Jupiter) which stood near it, the ruins whereof may be traced to this day. During the time our Island was under the dominion of the Romans, a body of Cuirassiers, under the command of the Duke of Britain, lay at Kirby Thore.
The first authentic historical account we have of this Castle is in the reign of William the Conqueror, who granted it, and the estate belonging to it, together with the Barony of Westmorland, to Hugh de Abrinois. This Hugh de Abrinois,( who was surnamed Lupus, and was the son of a sister of the Conqueror's,) and his successors, held it till the year 1170, when it was forfeited by Hugh de Morville. King John afterwards granted this Castle, together with Appleby, to Robert de Veteripont or Vipont, the son of Maud, daughter of Hugh de Morville: but Robert, the grandson of this Robert, espousing the cause of Montfort Earl of Leicester, forfeited his estates, which however were restored to Isabella and Ivetta, or Idonea, his two daughters. They being minors were in wardship to the King, who delegated this trust to Roger de Clifford of Clifford Castle in Herefordshire, and Roger de Leybourne of the County of Kent: these guardians afterwards married them to their two sons Roger de Clifford and Roger de Leybourne. Idonea, who was married to Roger de Leybourne, died without issue, but Isabella became the mother of the illustrious family of the Cliffords. In the Clifford family this estate and castle continued till the death of Anne Countess Dowager of Pembroke and Montgomery: her daughter Margaret being married to John Lord Tufton, brought the estate into the family of the present Earl of Thanet. After the death of Earl Thomas, his successor, sackville Tufton, had a quarrel with his tenants about their fines, upon which a trial at bar by a special jury was directed in the year 1739; during the trial, eleven witnesses were produced whose ages together amounted to a thousand years. A rare and pleasing instance of longevity; owing, no doubt, to the constant temperance, pure air, and healthful exercise in which our Cumbrian mountaineers uniformly live.
 Hugh de Morville was one of the Knights who murdered Thomas  Becket. He, with his accomplices Renigald Fitz Urse, William de Tracy, and Richard de Brito, fled from the hatred of the people, on account of this murder, to a castle at Knarseborough, belonging to Hugh de Morville; finding themselves likewise detested there, they went in the year 1172 to Rome for absolution, and are said to have all perished upon a black mountain, where they were commanded to do penance. Guthrif
This Castle hath varied its strength and beauty almost as much as its possessors; for after the death of John Veteripont it went almost to ruin, his son Robert being a minor and in ward to the Prior of Carlisle. It was afterwards repaired by Roger de Clifford; and when King James the I. returned in the year 1617 from his last progress into scotland, he was entertained at this Castle by Francis Earl of Cumberland. During the civil wars it was again demolished; but was repaired in the year 1671 by Anne Countess of Pembroke, who built a garden-wall on the south-East side of the building, as appears by a stone over the garden-door. The garden was afterwards planted with wood; and the stone, lead, and timber of this venerable edifice sold for L. 100 to Mr John Monkhouse and Mr Adderton, two Attornies in Penrith, who afterwards sold them in public sales, and the first sale was upon the same day that his Majesty George the I. was crowned: the old wainscotting being chiefly purchased by the neighbouring villagers, many curious pieces of carved work are yet to be seen in their houses.
The estate was then almost wholly neglected, no one residing upon it but a hind, who took in cattle by stint: he afterwards farmed it, together with Whinfield Park, for L. 40 per annum, and possessed it till the year 1767. The whole demesne was then a barren heath, stocked with vast numbers of rabbits, and a few deer; these supplied the farmer and his family almost entirely with food: during the summer they ate venison, and during the Winter they ate the rabbits.
 stint signifies, that the cattle taken into any particular spot of ground shall not exceed a certain number.
since the year 1767 Whinfield Park has been divided into farms, and these again subdivided; the rabbits destroyed, and the deer circumscribed in narrower bounds; by which means the red deer are much diminished in number. Thus we see a spot of ground, formerly a barren heath, now become rich fruitful land; and what twenty years ago was not worth more than forty pounds a year, now cheaply let for upwards of a thousand, and to add to its advantages, all tythe-free. This immunity was obtained in the year 1775, when the act obtained for dividing Brougham Moor empowered the Commissioners at the same time to allot to the Rector certain lands in lieu of the tythes both of the new and old inclosures.
 The farmer at Brougham Castle had L. 100 per annum added to his rent, and lost Whinfield Park, yet his farm was cheaper than before; for a strong spirit of industry had much lessened the value of money, whilst the encouragement given to agriculture had at the same time much increased the value of land.
Next to this lyes an estate called the Hospital, having been given by the Countess of Pembroke to her Hospital of st Nicholas at Appleby; the house stands on the left-hand side of the road, with a lane leading from it, and adjoining to this is the Vicarage house.
A little before we arrive at Brougham Hall is a beautiful view towards the North East, where is a fine fertile valley almost surrounded by water. This peninsula consisted, till lately, of several small tenements, which were purchased by the late Attorney General James Wallace, Esq; two small inclosures excepted, one of which is the property of the Earl of Lonsdale, and the other of Mr Richard Hall. It may not be amiss here to say a few words about so conspicuous an object as Carleton Hall; I hope I shall be therefore excused, although this is not its proper place.
Carleton Hall stands on the nearest dry situation to the River Emont: its late possessor, Mr Wallace,( notwithstanding it was the estate of his mother-in-law Mrs simpson of Penrith,) spared no expense in beautifying it, and chiefly resided at it. He rebuilt part of the Mansion, added stables and other out-buildings, and laid out the gardens and pleasure-grounds in manner which does honour to his taste and spirit. A picturesque examination may indeed find fault with the too great number of white objects, but we may well excuse this in a man whose busy and active life kept his mind constantly employed in more serious and important pursuits.
The next remarkable place upon the road is Brougham Hall, called till lately the Birds Nest, the seat of Henry Brougham, Esquire. Dr Burn calls this estate a Manor, but very erroneously: it lyes within the manor of Oglebirds, and is held of the Earl of Thanet as part of the forest of Whinfield. This was not well ascertained till after the division of the Common in 1775, when the Commissioners were directed to set out such a proportion of ground as they thought proper to H. Brougham Esq; for his signory of Brougham Hall. Mr Brougham made no claim, knowing he had no manor, and the Commissioners, upon inquiry, found that the manor belonged to the Earl of Thanet, and that the tenants were all freeholders: Mr Brougham therefore took his share among the other tenants, without ever attempting to establish any claim as lord.
On the opposite side of the road stands the Chapel, a low, old-fashioned building, founded by the Countess of Pembroke; it has no burying-ground, and service is performed there only once a fortnight.
The family of the Broughams is said to have originally come from Burd Oswald in Gillyland, but have been settled here a long time: their mansion is pleasantly situated, and commands a good prospect: the gardens, though small, are neatly laid out; but since the death of the late possessor, have been out of repair, the present owner, H. Brougham Esq; residing chiefly at Edinburgh.
We next come to Lowther Bridge, built over the River Lowther at a place called Bradwath in the boundary-rolls both of the manor of Brougham and Clifton. I am in possession of an old boundary-roll( taken at the perambulation of Gilbert de Engayne, in the 21st year of Edward the Iii. at which time he settled the whole village of Clifton upon his son Henry, and Johanna his wife) and this likewise begins at Bradwath. This Bridge likewise divides the parish of Brougham from the parish of Barton.
 Daughter of Robert Lowther of Halton in Northumberland.
From the Bridge part of the village of Clifton may be seen; more particularly the church, and that old tower called the Hall, at the distance of about three quarters of a mile. This village,( which consists of about forty houses, all very neat,) formerly belonged to Hugh de Morville, and was given by him to Gilbert de Engayne before the forfeiture of his other estates. In the family of the Engaynes it continued until the marriage of Elinora, the only daughter of the family, to William Wybergh, and in the Wybergh family it hath ever since continued. During the civil wars they fell into distress through the oppressions of those times, when the manor of Clifton was mortgaged to sir John Lowther of Lowther, and never afterwards redeemed. The present possessor is Thomas Wybergh Esq; Counsellor at law.
An ancient customary service exacted from the tenants of this manor was," to go" to st. Bees with man and horse, to fetch salt and other necessaries from thence, once" a year." They had a right to compound for this service, by paying half a crown to the Bailiff when he went to warn them; and it is hardly necessary to observe, that the Bailiff knew perfectly well how to time his summons. some, however, chose rather to go than pay; and in that case they had a shilling each man from the lord, and at their return were to have bread and cheese and ale at the lord's expence. The last who went this journey was Henry Penrith, who brought salt from st Bees at the summons of John Lowther, to whom the manor was then mortgaged. This may shew us how greatly money is decreased in value within a few years in this county, as( notwithstanding the improvements of the road,) the distance which those who went to st Bees had to travel, is forty - seven miles; and before these improvements took place, the journey must have been not only longer, but very laborious.
Near the village is Clifton Moor, where a battle was fought between a part of the army under William Duke of Cumberland and the Rebels, in the year 1745, at which time Lieutenant Colonel,( afterwards Lieutenant General) Honeywood was desperately wounded: he was taken up for dead, having received several wounds on his head; and his hat was cut through in nine several places.
 This was not the only miraculous escape of this brave officer: at the battle of Dettingen he received twenty - three broad-sword wounds, and two Musquet Shots which never were extracted. He died A.D. 1785, and left his large estates, to the amount of L. 6000 per annum, together with a very considerable personal property, to his nephew Filmer Honeywood, Esq; now Member for the County of Kent.
Before we leave the River Lowther, it may not be improper to remark, that it gives name to a village, and probably to the great and illustrious family of Lowther, who have had their residence in that village since the reign of Henry the Ii. The family-mansion, called Lowther Hall, is well worth the notice of the curious traveller; but above all things, the admirable carpet-manufactory( carried on here for the sole use and pleasure of the family,) will amply gratify the curiosity of a spectator, as perhaps the whole world can scarcely equal it.
Among the many distinguished personages which the Lowther family has produced, I shall select a few of the most remarkable.
 sir Hugh de Lowther, Attorney General to Edward the I.
 sir Hugh de Lowther, who, together with Richard Denton, was commissioned in the 17th of Edward the Ii. to summons and have ready all the armed men of the county of Cumberland. Afterwards, in the 13th of Edward the Iii. the same sir Hugh de Lowther was commissioned to array all men at arms in the counties of Cumberland and Westmorland.
 William Lowther, who, with sir Thomas Colville, sir John Etton, knights; William selveyn, Henry Van Croypole, and simon Ward, obtained leave from Richard the Ii. to challenge certain persons of the kingdom of scotland to exercise feats of arms; and upon this the King appointed John Lord Roos to fix a camp and be judge in the said exercise.
 sir Richard Lowther,( the twelfth of the line,) was Lord Warden of the West Marches, and several times a commissioner in the contests between the two kingdoms during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
In the 11th year of heir reign he was sent by her to Workington Hall, the seat of the Cunven family, to take prisoner Mary Queen of scots, who had fled thither, and to carry her to Carlisle, and there to keep strict watch over her: His humanity, however, got the better of his duty, and he incurred Elizabeth's displeasure, by suffering the Duke of Norfolk to visit the unfortunate Princess in her confinement.
 sir John Lowther Baronet,( the seventeenth of the line,) was( A.D. 1696,) advanced to the dignity of Viscount and Baron, by the title of Baron Lowther of Lowther, and Viscount Lonsdale. In 1699 he was made Lord Privy seal, and was one of the Lords Justices for the government of the kingdom during the King's absence. He died in 1700, at the early age of 45.
 sir James Lowther,( the twentieth of the line,) married Lady Mary stewart, daughter of John Earl of Bute, but had no issue. In the 23d year of George the Iii. he was created Earl of Lonsdale, by the stile and title of the Right Honourable James Earl of Lonsdale, Viscount Lonsdale in the County of Westmorland, and County Palatine of Lancaster, Viscount Lowther of Lowther in the said County of Westmorland, Baron Kendal of Kendal in the said County, and Baron Burgh of Burgh in the County of Cumberland.
About three hundred yards from Lowther Bridge, by the road-side, is a monument of antiquity, called by some Arthur's Round Table, by others simply the Round Table. Authors differ widely as to the origin and use of this place; but there cannot, I think, be a doubt, that it hath been a place for the exercise of arms.. It is round, about an hundred and twenty feet diameter, surrounded by a broad ditch,( two openings excepted, which are diametrically opposite to each other,) and all round it a sloping bank of earth, seemingly intended for the accommodation of spectators.
If we allow this to have been a place for the exercise of chivalry, the name of Arthur's Round Table may not improbably be esteemed the genuine one. King Arthur is said to have lived much at Carlisle, and most of the old songs and poems concerning him and his knights have their scene laid in this country, and with these the popular traditions accurately agree, as we shall see hereafter: it is farther remarkable, that the old songs were lost in English, but were afterwards translated from the French, in which language they had been preserved almost entire.
The history of the Order of the Round Table is briefly this: King Arthur observing many quarrels about precedency among his knights, about the year 516 caused a Round Table to be made, at which all the Order, the sovereign himself not excepted, took their seats promiscuously: To this Table none were admitted but those who had given sufficient proof of their valour and dexterity in the use of arms. As there are some who even deny the existence of King Arthur, I shall not insist farther on this subject, but refer them to other authors, whose province it is more particularly to inquire into these affairs: I shall, however, add from Favine,( lib. 5. p. 97.) a list of the first table of these knights.
 Arthur, King of Great Britain Galaad.	 King Ydiir.		 Percival.	 King Rions.		 Lancelot King Karadoc of Wales.	 Keux de seneschal.	 Gawaine.	 The King of Clare.	 Yrien the son of King Vrian.	 Boors.	 The Duke of Clarence.	 Brunor the Black.	 Lyonnel.	 Hector de Marests.	 Bedonier the Constable.	 Helias le Blanc.	 Blioberis.	 Agloual.	 King Baudomages.	 Gueriot.	 securades, and Patrides.	
Caxton's old book exhibits a greater number, with the distinguishing epithet of each; but this seems to come nearest the truth, or rather the ancient story.
The road from hence to Emont Bridge contains nothing remarkable or picturesque: I shall therefore here say a few words concerning the county of Westmorland in general.
Westmorland contains only one borough, namely Appleby, and sends four members to Parliament. It is very like Cumberland in its soil and climate, and a similarity of manners is every where to be found in both. Dr Falconer, in a learned and elegant paper, published in the Memoirs of the Literary society of Manchester, has proved almost to demonstration, that the scenery of a country has the greatest share in forming the manners of its inhabitants: but to this I must add another source equally powerful, the necessities of situation.
The contemplation of barren heaths, bleak, rocky mountains, and almost impassable swamps and mosses, will naturally fill the mind with gloomy and uncomfortable ideas; but when the inhabitant has his daily sustenance to collect from these dreary wilds, he will alternately starve and gluttonize. If he is one day pinched with hunger, he will, if the next affords him a prey, fall to with the voracity of a wolf. Can we then wonder, that people so situated should have frequent quarrels with their neighbours? Can we wonder that they should, by every species of cruelty, endeavour to terrify their neighbours from attacking them, where we must be sensible that they have only the dreadful alternative to massacre their invaders, or perish by hunger? When necessity has thus begun the practice of cruelty, a spirit of revenge keeps it alive, till custom rivets it too fast to be easily removed.
In every country where this is not the case, a spirit of humanity in general keeps time with martial ardour. The vanquished yielding enemy is considered as not only entitled to mercy, but protection: the valour he has that day shewn, though at the expense of the noblest blood of the victors, increases the respect shewn him; and no one ever thinks of revenging at that time the death of a father, a son, or a brother. The Israelites were perhaps the only civilized nation that ever massacred a vanquished enemy in cood blood; nor were they contented with death alone, for they tortured them in the most cruel manner;" they hewed them to pieces with axes, and tore" them with harrows." It is true, they pretended a divine mandate for this; but what age has not produced some crafty, designing priest, of art and impudence sufficient to gloss over the blackest crimes! The situation of the countries I am here describing is such, that they are extremely beautiful in summer, and equally cold, bleak, and uncomfortable in Winter; and as we know that agriculture has been very lately improved, or even introduced here, we may conclude that the necessities of them were much varied. In summer, the inhabitants would live pleasantly and plentifully enough by hunting and fishing; but in Winter,( before the art of preserving meat by the means of salt was discovered,) their fare must have been very precarious. This would naturally enough introduce the desire of those conveniences their neighbours might chance to enjoy; and among people where legislature is very imperfect, as theirs was till very lately, the next step is plunder. The consequences of these primeval habits are scarcely yet worn out. We find, very late in the annals of history, the inhabitants of these northern counties marked as despising danger to a great degree: most of their ways of speaking of it are ludicrous; and whoever has seen them engaged in their favourite amusement, the Foot Ball, will perceive that even their diversions were hazardous. With all this ferocity, there was, however, a strong tincture of generosity; history, tradition, and the old popular ballads confirm it by numeours instances. Even among the inhabitants of the debateable ground there was a kind of principle of honour mixed with their thefts; for, though outlaws from both kingdoms, and punished with death when taken, they seldom or never did violence to the person of the traveller, and have even been known to do actions of the highest generosity to those whose misfortunes needed such assistance. This is, as far as I can determine, the real character of the northern counties: I shall only add, that the spirit of these people, though changed from its original channel, is not lost; for now it breaks out in obstinate lawsuits, as the learned counsellors who attend this circuit can avouch.
Near to Emont Bridge is Mayburgh, or Maybrough, a singular and astonishing piece of antiquity, nothing similar to it appearing either in this or any other country that I can hear of. This curious monument of former ages is a circle, consisting of a mound of loose, detached stones( none of them of any great size) containing an area or circus of 90 yards in diameter: the rampart is about 5 yards high, and its external bound comprehends about five acres. In that part which fronts the East is an entrance about 20 yards wide; and near the centre stands a single stone of prodigious magnitude, being upwards of 12 feet high. some years ago, there were four other stones, though not so large as this which remains; of these, two were placed like door-posts at the entrance, and two in the amphitheatre. These smaller stones were blasted and removed by order of a person who appears to have been at that time the farmer of this place: one of the men employed in the work having hanged himself, and the other turning lunatic, has given a fair opening for vulgar superstition, to impute those misfortunes to their sacrilege in defacing what they suppose was formerly a place of eminent sanctity.
The origin and design of this singular structure are so uncertain, that nothing more than mere conjecture can possibly be adduced concerning them; it is, according to some, a temple of the Druids, according to others it is a fortress: It may be" the circle of" the terrible Loda, with the massy stone of his power,"( so often named in those sublime, pathetic, and unequalled poems ascribed to Oslian;) it may, in short be whatever learning guided by fancy can dictate.
Among the rest, permit me to lay a conjecture before my readers. The famous Round Table is universally acknowledged to be the scene where the" brave of other" days" vindicated their knighthood by feats of arms. May not this in some measure prove a key to this my serious structure? Their vicinity argues for it, and nothing makes against the idea that this is the Gymnasium where the wrestlers, the racers, and others, not of the degree of knights, performed their exercises; exercises not yet forgotten among the plain, uncultivated mountaineers of this country.
That it has been no place of worship belonging to the Druids I think very evident: we no where learn that they had either temple or altar. They prophesied, it is said, from the intrails of human victims laid upon stones; but they resided, they worshipped, they taught their pupils in the woods. Their principal seat was in the Isle of Anglisea among the oaks, whence they had their name; and their chief festival was on the first day of the vernal new moon, when they went with great solemnity to gather the sacred misseltoe, to which they attributed many miraculous effects.
 Deru in the British, and in Greek, signifies an Oak.
A farther and stronger argument of Mayburgh having been built about the same time with the Round Table, is drawn from a very well-known piece of history. The knights of King Arthur, the Teutonics, Hospitallers, and Templars,( who were nearly the same,) having built Marienburgh in Prussia,( which differs little in sound from Mayburgh, and had its name from a large oak which stood there,) were afterwards banished Germany; many of them then came into England, where considerable possessions were allotted them. That these domains were in this neighbourhood the name and privileges of Temple Sowerby plainly evince, as it enjoys to this day the immunities of these knights, viz. exemption from land-tax and all tolls in every market, and freedom from the jurisdiction of the Bishop; the Lord thereof acting both as Bishop and Chancellor in his own Lordship.
Before we dismiss the subject, I cannot help remarking that the great Countess of Pembroke is totally silent respecting Mayburgh, notwithstanding it was her own property; and sir Philip sydney, whose intelligence was very great, resided with her at Brougham Castle during the time he wrote part of his Arcadia.
Dr Burn and some others say, that Penrith Castle was built of the stone which were taken from Mayburgh; but as neither the stones are of the same kind, nor were the roads in those times practicable for carriages, they must surely be wrong informed.
We now enter the small but neat village of Emont Bridge, consisting only of a few cottages; yet so excellently is this spot situated for trade, that besides a very considerable bleaching-ground, several fulling-mills,& c. here is a silk and woolen Dyer, of sufficient abilities to produce all those beautiful tints which are employed in the Earl of Lonsdale's splendid Carpet Manufactory, whose excellence is universally known.
On one of them is the following inscription, highly characteristic of the genius of this country.
Omne sOLUM Forti Patria Est.
Emont Bridge divides Cumberland from Westmorland, and is a plain but substantial building. From the middle arch is a beautiful view either up or down the river, and perhaps few places are better disposed in point of picturesque beauty, though none have been less noticed.
Chap. Ii.

 Emont Bridge,-- Carleton Hall,-- Carleton Family,-- sir Thomas Carleton's Expedition into scotland,-- Meal Cross.
Having crossed the Bridge, and ascended a steep bank, we meet with a small road which leads to Carleton Hall; which we mentioned before, but shall here give a succinct account of it from the earliest tradition to this present time. It was, about the time of the Conquest, the property of a family of the name of Carleton, in which it continued through many successions, until the year 1707, when it was purchassed by Mr John Pattison Attorney at law in Penrith. His son Christopher Pattison dying without issue, the estate devolved upon his three sisters, the eldest of whom had Carleton Hall allotted to her as her share. she was married to Mr J. simpson of Penrith, by whom she had one daughter, who was married to the late James Wallace, Esq; who, after living many years with high and increasing reputation, died in the honourable post of Attorney General to his present Majesty George the Iii. Dugdale, in his visitation in 1665, confirms the above account of the Carleton family.
As a supplement to this account, and to give my readers an insight into the state of these parts before the Union, I beg leave to add a journal of a Focray, headed by sir Thomas Carleton of Carleton Hall, addressed to the Lord Wharton, then Lord Warden of the West Marches: It is dated in February 1547, and has been copied by Dr Burn, which does not depreciate its worth.
 Foraging, or marauding party.
" The first day we made a road into Tevidale, and got a great booty of goods, and" that night we lay in the old walls of Wancop Tower, and builded to-falls; but for" lake of houses both for ourselves and our horses, we could not remain there the" weather was so sore, and so we came to Cannonby, and then went to Dumfires and" lay there, who submitted themselves to become the King's Majesty's subjects of England. " And the morrow after my coming hither, I went into the Moot Hall, and made" a proclamation in the King of England's name, that all manner of men should come" in and make oath to the King's Majesty, every man at his peril. They all came and" swore, whereof I made a book, and sent it to the Lord Wharton, and I so continued" about ten days. And so making proclamation, that whoso would come in and make" oath, and lay in pledges to serve the King's Majesty of England, should have our aid" and maintenance; and who would not, we would be on them with fire and sword. " Many of the lairds of Nidsdale and Galloway came in and laid in pledges, but the" town of Kirkobree, being 24 miles from Dumfries, refused; insomuch that the Lord" Wharton moved me, if possible, to give the same town of Kirkobree a preiffe to burn" it. And so we rode thither one night, and coming a little after sun-rising, they who" saw us coming barred their gates and kept their dykes; for the town is dyked on" both sides, with a gate to the wall's - ward, and a gate to the over-end, and to the fell-ward;" there we lited on foot, and gave the town a sharp onset and assault, and slew" one honest man in the town with an arrow; in so much, that one wife came to the" dyke, and called for one that would take her husband and save his life. Anthony" Armstrong being ready, said," Fetch him to me, and I'll warrant his life." The woman" ran into the town and fetched her husband, and brought him through the" dyke, and delivered him to the said Armstrong, who brought him into England and" ransomed him. The tutor of Bombye, near adjoining the said town, impeached us" with a company of men, and so we drew from the town and gave Bombye the onset," where were slain, of our part, Clement Taylor; of theirs three, and divers taken, the" rest fled. And so we returned, seized about 2000 sheep, 200 kye and oxen, 40 or 50" horses, mares, and colts, and brought the same towards Dumfries. The country beyond" the water of Dee gathered and came to a place called the Forehead Ford, so we" left all our sheep, and put our worst-horsed men before our nowte and naggs, and" sent 30 of the best horsed to preeke at the scots if they should come over the water," and I to abide with the standard in their relief; which the scots perceiving, stayed" and came not over, so that we passed that night to Dumfries, leaving the goods in" safety with men and a good watch. In the morning we repaired to the goods, a" mile beyond Dumfires, of intent to have divided and dealt the booty; and some" claimed this cow and that nagg under assurance, and ran through the goods. Above" all, one man of the laird of Empsfielde came amongst the goods, and would" need take one cow, and would be stopped by no man, insomuch, that one Thomas" Taylor, called Tom with the Bow,--" so that the blood ran down over his shoulders. Going to his master there, and crying" out, his master went with him to the master Maxwell; the master Maxwell came" with a great rout after him, and brought the man with the bloody head to me, saying" with an earnest countenance," Is this, think ye, well, both to take our goods and" thus to shed our blood?" I considering the master at present to be two for one," thought best to use him and the rest of the scots with good words and fair speeches," for they were determined to have even there given us an onset, and to have made" that their quarrel; so I persuaded him and the rest to stay themselves, and for the" man that hurt the other man, he should be punished to the example of all others to" commit the like, giving him that gave the stroke sharp words before them, and the" goods should all be stayed, and none dealt till the next morrow, and then every man" to come that had any claim, and, upon proof, it should be redressed; and thus witted" every man quietly for that time to depart. Upon this we all agreed, and so we left" the goods in safe keeping to come to Dumfries about one of the clock in the" afternoon, giving every one of the garrison secret orders to put on their sacks," and bridle and saddle their horses, and meet me immediately at the bridge, and" so they did. I sent 42 men for the goods, and to meet me at a ford a mile above" the town where we brought the goods over, and so came by Lochmahen and" divided them that night, and brought them to Cannonby, where we remained before;" and thus with wiles we beguiled the scots.
" Considering Cannonby to be far from the enemy, for at that time all Annerdale," Liddisdale, and a great part both of Nidsdale and Galloway were in assurance," and entered to serve the King's Majesty of England, saving the laird of Drumlanricke," who never came in nor submitted himself, and with him continued Alexander" Carlell laird of Bridekirk, and his son the young laird; I thought it good" to practice some way that we might get some hold or castle where we might lie" near the enemy, and to lie within our own strength in the night, where we might" all lie down together and all rise together. Thus practising, one sander Armstrong" son to ill Will. Armstrong, came to me and told me he had a man called John Linton," who was born in the head of Annerdale, near to Lough Wood, being the laird Johnston's" chief house, and the said laird and his brother,( being the Albot of salside,)" were taken prisoners not long before, and were remaining in England. It was a" fair large tower, able to lodge all our company, with a barnekin, hall, kitchen" and stables, all within the barnekin, and was but kept with two or three fellows," and as many wenches. He thought it might be stolen in a morning at the opening" of the tower-door, which I required the said sander to practice, and as he thought" good, either myself to go to it, or that he would take a company and give it a preisse" with as much foresight to make it sure as possible; for if we should make an offer and" not get it, we had lost it for ever. At last it was agreed that we should go with the" whole garrison. We came there about an hour before day; and the greater part of" us lay close without the barnekin. But about a dozen of men got over the barnekin-wall," and stole close into the house within the barnekin, took the wenches, and" kept them secure till day-light. And at sun-rising, two men and a woman being in" the tower, one of the men rising in his shirt, and going to the tower-head, and seeing" nothing stir about, he called on the wench that lay in the tower, and bad her" rise and open the door, and call up them that lay beneath. she so doing, and opening" the iron door, and a wood without it, our men within the barnekin brake a little" too soon to the door, for the wench perceiving them, leaped back into the tower" and had gotten almost the wood door to, but one got hold of it that she could not" get it close to: so the skirmish rose, and we over the barnekin and broke open the" wood door, and she being troubled with the wood door, left the iron door open; and" so we entered and wan the Loughwood, where we truly found the house well provided" for beef salted, malt, big, havermeal, bread and cheese. I immediately took a" short survey of the house, leaving the same in charge with sander Armstrong, and giving strict command no man to imbezzle or take away any manner of thing until" my Lord Wharton's mind and pleasure should be known. I rid to his Lordship at" Carlisle, who witted me in the King's Majesty's name to keep that house to his" Grace's use, and to ride to Moffet, four miles off, and make proclamation according to" the effect of the proclamation made before in Dumfires: and whoso did others" wrong, either by theft, oppression, or otherwise, that I should order it amongst them," and in all weighty causes to refer to his Lordship and his council; which I accomplished" to the utmost of my power; and so continued there for some time in the service" of the King's Majesty as Captain of that house, and stewart of Annerdale under" the Lord Wharton, in which time we rode daily and nightly upon the King's Majesty's" enemies; and, among others, soon after my coming and remaining there, I called" certain of the bell-horsed men of the garrison, declaring to them I had a purpose" offered by a scotsman that would be our guide, and that was to burn Lamington," which we did wholly, took prisoners and won so much goods, both malt and sheep," horse and insight, and brought them to Moffet in the head of Annerdale, and there" distributed it; giving every man an oath to bring in all his winnings of that journey," wherein truly the men offended so much their own conscience, very many loyning" and concealing things, which I afterwards speired out, that after that time my conscience" would never suffer me to minister an oath for this, but that which could be speired" or known to be brought in, and every man to have a share accordingly.
" After that, I made a road to the head of Clyde by Crawfurth Castle, where we" sieged a great vaslit house of James Douglas, which they held till the men and castle" were all devoured with sword and fire: and so we returned to the Loughwood, at" which place we remained very quietly, and in a manner in as civil order, both for" hunting and all pastime, as if we had been at home in our own houses. For any" man within Annerdale, being within 12 or 16 miles of Loughwood, would have resorted" to me to seek reformation for any injury committed or done within the said" compass, which I omitted not, but immediately after the plaintiff rode myself, and" took the party complained upon, or sent for him and punished or redressed as the" cause deserved, and the country was then in good quietness. Annerdale, Nidsdale," and a great part of Galloway, all to the water of Dee were come in, and entered pledges;" for then was Kirkobree come in, and entered their pledges also."
Thus much may perhaps satisfy the curiosity of the reader at present; if not, he will find many other similar accounts in the first vol. of Dr Burn's History. However, to indulge those who cannot conveniently consult Dr Burn, and have yet a desire for information, I shall from time to time insert such pieces of the Border History as may suit my general plan, or prove it interesting or entertaining in the perusal.
Nearly half way between Emont Bridge and Penrith stands an house, called from its situation Halfway House, but formerly Mill or Meal Cross, from the following circumstance.
During the dreadful plague which visited this country in the year 1598, and almost depopulated Penrith,( no less than 2260 in the town falling victims to this merciless disease,) the Millers and Villagers refused to bring their commodities into the town to market for fear of the infection. The inhabitants, therefore, were under the necessity of meeting them here, and performing a kind of quarantine before they were allowed to buy any thing; and for this purpose they erected a cross, which remains to this day. For greater conveniences, they likewise built another cross at the town's - head, and erected shambles,& c.; the place still retains the name of the Cross Green: they built a third cross near the Carlisle road a little above the second, where black cattle, sheep, hogs and goats were sold; and it retains yet the name of the Nolt Fair, and continues to be the market for cattle.
 The names of all these are in the Parish Register, from which it appears that only 60 were interred in the church-yard; the rest were all buried upon the Fell or Common. These were marked in the Register with F. the initial of Fell.
 This was said to be almost at the option of the country people. Thus much is certain, no man was allowed to touch the money made use of on these occasions; it being put into a vessel of water, whence they had a method of taking it without touching it with their fingers.
 Nolt, Oxen, Cows,& c.
Chap. Iii. 
 The Public Buildings,-- The Antiquities in the Church Yard,-- The Giant's Cave,-- The Castle,-- The Beacon.
We now enter the town of Penrith, remarkable for the neatness of its appearance, if we except the shambles and town-hall; most of the houses being built of red free stone, and covered with those blue slates whose excellence is now well known throughout most towns in the kingdom, though they are generally called,( I know not why) White Slates.
Though an inland town, there are some very considerable manufactories of checks, which are daily increasing; two common breweries in good employ; two hair-merchants, who,( limited as their business may seem,) are both men of property; and a tannery, where some business is done. Yet as these employ but a small part of the inhabitants, perhaps the manners of no place are more strongly or generally stamped with the marks of ease and peace. Few are rich, but as few miserably poor. Whoever wishes to enjoy a social glass, is seldom at a loss for a companion. A regular Card Assembly, during the Winter; and small, though agreeable private parties all the year round, furnish the fair sex with ample amusement; whilst two well frequented bowling-greens afford, during the fine weather, exercise and amusement to such of the males as have no better employment. During the races and assizes, a more gay and agreeable place cannot be imagined. The more than usual bustle of those times rousing the inhabitants out of that placid dream of existence they at other times enjoy, and animating them to a degree of real mirth and festivity rarely met with in more pompous scenes.
But why not here, as well as any where else, should I pay the tribute due to the general manners of the country? They deserve it. Every reputable farmer in the neighbourhood prides himself upon the goodness of his ale, and is never so happy as when his friends have taken as much of it as they can carry home. The gentlemen are remarked for affability and hospitality. True it is, that, like trees which grow single, every little irregularity has ample room to expand and shew itself; but at the same time, all is pure nature, undisguised by art. To rise still higher; even a Cynic would acknowledge, were he at Graystock, that there is at least one Nobleman who has the art of joining the polish of France to the hospitality of Britain, and whose chief delight is to shew, that true nobility can reside alone in superior worth.
Penrith has an excellent market on Tuesday, and a small one on saturday. The Tuesday market is likewise a market for live-cattle, both fat and lean, from Lammas till Whitsuntide; but from Whitsuntide till Lammas the cattle-market is held upon the Nolt Fair. The markets here are disposed in a manner truly astonishing in so small a town: the wheat-market is in one part of the town; rye and potatoes in another; barley in another; oats and pease in another; live-cattle, horses, and hogs have also their distinct markets. The measures here are different in different articles; as there are two customary bushels in use here, one of 80 quarts and another of 64: by the first are sold barley and oats; by the second, wheat, rye, fruit, pease and potatoes. The second is called the Penrith Bushel, and is double the Winchester measure, and three of the bushels are called a Load.
The average prices of Fish in this and the neighbouring inland towns is as follows:
 sea-Fish in general, 2 d. stream and Esk Trout, 2 d. salmon, 3 Ulswater Eels, 2 Ulswater Trout, 3 Mussels and Cockles, 1 per quart.	 Charr 3 Oysters, 2 s. 6 per hundred.	
Penrith is perhaps the greatest thoroughfare in the North of England: all the Irish now crossing the sea at Port Patrick, and consequently take this in their road to the Metropolis. should they come by Whitehaven this is still their road: besides, since the improvements of the roads, those who are travelling from scotland to London generally chuse this road. Another set of never-failing travellers are those whom nature, in opposition to an absurd law, prompts to connubial ties; this way they must come in their road to Gretna Green; more famous, though less dangerous in our days, for the cure of love-sickness, than the promontory of Leucothoe was in days of yore. Those, likewise, whom a taste for natural beauties impells to visit the Lakes, always consider Penrith as a kind of home in these solitary regions; and the consequence is natural, all the inns here seem to vie with each other in attention, and strain every sinew in making the country as agreeable as possible.
The Antiquarians say that this town takes its name from the red-hill out of which it hath been built, and on which the Beacon now stands; this they found on the etymology of the name, Pen Rith, signifying Red Hill, or Red Head. Upon the whole, this seems a more probable conjecture, than that this Penrith was built out of the ruins of the Ala Petriana which Horsley and others call Old Penrith; for Ala Petriana, or Camlic Fort, is at the distance of five miles; and I cannot suppose any one would fetch stones five miles, when he had as good within half a mile.
This town has a free school, founded by Queen Elizabeth, and by her endowed with many privileges. This school she founded at the petition of the inhabitants, which was presented by sir Thomas smith, then Dean of Carlisle, and secretary of state. Accordingly we find, that she did, by her letters-patent, dated 18th of July, in the sixth year of her reign, found and erect a free Grammar School within the Forest of Inglewood, in this, being the signory and chief town in that Forest, under the style and title of, The Free Grammar sCHOOL Of Queen Elizabeth In Penrith. The endowments are six pounds per annum, the ancient salary of the Chantry Priest; to have one Master and Usher; to be governed by five of the most discreet persons of the town and parish of Penrith; with power to choose both Master and Usher, and to elect new Governors upon the death of any of their members. The present Master is the Curate of Penrith.
The church of Penrith is vicarial, and is worth,( as appears from the table of donations,) about L. 100 per annum; it is in the gift of the Bishop of Carlisle, having been annexed to that see at its first erection by King Henry the I. It is a very handsome modern structure, having been rebuilt A.D. 1721, the tower excepted, which is of a much older and uncertain date. It consists internally of 112 pews on the ground, and 90 in the galleries, which are supported upon 20 beautiful stone pillars, well worth the notice of travellers: each pillar consists of one single stone, veined like mohogany, or stained fir; insomuch that they seem rather to have grown like wood, than to have been cut out of a solid block.
The whole inside of the church is elegantly neat, the pews being made of variegated English oak, and the altar decorated all round with paintings, which will be a lasting testimony of the abilities of Mr Reid. From the roof of the Church depend two handsome gilt chandeliers, with the following inscription upon them:" These chandeliers" were purchased with the 50 guineas given by the most noble William Duke" of Portland to his tenants of the honour of Penrith, who, under his Grace's encouragement," associated in defence of the Government and town of Penrith against the" rebels in 1745." The rebels, after their retreat from Derby, were put to flight from Clifton and Penrith, by his Royal Highness William Duke of Cumberland, after a short skirmish near Clifton Moor, which began about four o'clock in the afternoon of Wednesday December 18th 1745: The rebel prisoners taken by the tenants of Penrith and the neighbours were upwards of 80.
In the church-yard is a curious monument of antiquity, generally called the Giant's - Grave: it consists of two pillars, about four yards high, and 40 inches in circumference, placed parallel to the side of the church, and distant about five yards from each other: on these is the remains of carved work, and from one to the other are two rows of large stones cut into segments of circles, likewise bearing marks of sculpture, and inclosing a small area. The origin of this, like most of our northern antiquities, is obscure, some affirming it to be the burying-place of one champion, some of another: most of them however agree, that his sirname was Caesarius, though one calls him sir Owen, another sir Hugh, and a third sir Ewan.
Dr Burn tells us, upon the authority of Mr sandford's manuscript history, that sir Hugh Caesario had an hermitage in that neighbourhood called sir Hugh's Parlour: of this he, Mr sandford, was informed by a Mr Page, schoolmaster at Penrith from the year 1581 to 1591; and this intelligence Mr Page had from a stranger, who came so early as that period to visit the antiquities and curiosities of that country. Mr sandford farther says, whilst he was schoolmaster in Penrith, this place was opened by William Turner, and the bones of a man of extraordinary stature, and a broad sword, were found there.
 Could this traveller be Mr Leland?
An equally probable account of this place is taken from an old tradition and song, which informs us that one Torquin, a man of gigantic stature, but addicted to all kinds of rapine and brutality, lived in a cave in this neighbourhood, on the banks of the River Emont. This den, which yet retains the name of the Giant's Cave, is about two miles from Penrith, and is, on some account,( the foundation of which is now forgotten,) much resorted to on the third sunday in May by the country people, who carry with them tea, liquors,& c. and there make merry. It consists of several caverns in the rocks, the road to which leads down a frightful precipice, quite to the water's edge: this makes many decline the journey, but when down, the road is more tolerable. Many strange and incredible stories are told of this cave; one, which seems not so absurd as the rest, and to have had some real foundation, is as follows:
Torquin, or Torquinas,( as some call him,) having stolen several virgins, conveyed them to this dismal mansion, where he kept them close prisoners. One of them, however, found means to escape along the side of the rock: in her road she was obliged to step over an hideous gap a yard and an half wide; a rugged, craggy rock overhanging her head, so as scarcely to allow room to stand upright, and a perpendicular descent of 48 feet underneath: the sides of the rock are such as could afford no hold to her hand, and the boiling and rapidity of the impetuous torrent which roars beneath, are enough to confuse the calmest and most intrepid. Notwithstanding these horrors and difficulties, she preserved and effected her escape, and to this day the place has retained the name of the Maiden's step.
Tradition further says, that the ravages of this Torquin coming to the ears of King Arthur, he sent sir Lancelot du Lake to bring him to Court: Torquin refusing, a battle ensued, in which Torquin fell, and was buried in Penrith church-yard, and these pillars erected at his head and feet.
The engagement between sir Lancelot and Torquin is celebrated in many of the ballads of the ancient rustic poets: One of them I shall insert, which has certainly been in great esteem formerly, as shakespear puts the first line of it into the mouth of the facetious fat sir John; and it should likewise seem even then to be an old song, as sir John is represented singing it in the height of his mirth, in a style that may appear to be one of the songs of his youth.
 second part of Henry Iv. Act Iii. scene Iv.
[ From and Old Manuscript.]

I. When Arthur first in Court began, and was approved King, By force of arms great victeries wanne, and conquests home did bring; Then unto England strait he came with fiftye good and able Knights that reverted unto him, and sate at this Round Table.
Ii. And hee had justes and tournaments, whereto were many prest, Wherein some Knights did them excelle, and far surmount the rest; But good sir Lancelot Du Lake, who was approved well, Hee for his deeds and feats of armes, all others did excelle.
-- nonnulla desunt.
Iii. When hee had rested him a while in play, and game, and sporte, He said he would go prove himselfe in some adventerous sorte; He armed rode in forrest wyde, and met a damsell faire, Who told him of adventures great, whereto he gave good eare.
Iv. such wold I find, quoth Lancelot, for that cause came I hither. Thou seem, quoth she, a Knight full good, and I will bring thee thither Whereas a mightye Knight doth dwell, that now is of great fame, Therefore tell me what wight thou art, and what may be thy name.
V. My name is Lancelot du Lake. Quoth she, It likes me than, Here dwells a Knight who never was yet matched with any man, Who has in prisonne threescore Knights, and four that he did wound; Knights of King Arthur's Court they be, and of his Table Round.
Vi. she brought him to a river-side, and also to a tree, Whereon a copper bason hung, and many a shield to see; He struck so hard the bason brake, and Torquin soon he spyed, Who drove a horse before him fast, whereon a Knight was tyed.
Vii. sir Knight, then said sir Lancelot, bring me that horse-load hither, And lay him downe, and let him rest, we'll try our force together; For as I understande thou hast, as far as thou art able, Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the Round Table.
Viii. If thou be of the Table Round, quoth Torquin speedily, Bothe thee and all thy fellowship I utterly defy. That's over much, quoth Lancelot, defend thee by and by. They set their spurs unto their steeds, and at each other fly.
Ix. They coucht their spears,( their horses ran as though there had been thunder,) And strucke them each amidst their shield, wherewith they brake in sunder; Their horses backs brake under them, the Knights were both astound; T' avoid their horses they made haste, and light upon the grounds.
X. They took them to their shields full fast, their swords they drew out than, With mighty strokes most eagerlye, eache at the other ran: They wounded were, and bled full sore, for breath they both did stand, And leaning on their swords a while, quoth Torquin, Hold thy hand,
Xi. And tell to me what I do aske. say on, quoth Lancelot. Though Thou art, quoth Torquin, the best Knight that ever I did know, And like a Knight that I do hate, so that thou be not hee, I will deliver all the rest, and eke accord with thee.
Xii. That is well said, quoth Lancelot, but sith it must be so, What Knight is that thou hatest thus, I pray thee to me show. His name is Lancelot du Lake, he slew my brother deare; Him I suspect of all the rest, I would I had him here.
Xiii. Thy whish thou hast, but yet unknown, I'm Lancelot du Lake, Now Knight of Arthur's Table Round;-- s son of southake; And I defye thee, do thy worst,-- Ho! ho! quoth Torquin, ho! One of us two must end our lives before that we do go.
They buckled then together so, like unto wild boars rushing, And with their swords they ran at one another slashing; The ground besprinkled was with blood. Torquin began to yield, For he gave back for weariness, and low did bear his shield.
Xiv. This soone sir Lancelot espyed, he leapt upon him then; He pulled him down upon his knee, and swashed off his helm; Forthwith he struck his neck in twain, and when he had so done, From prisone threescore Knights and four delivered every one.I shall leave this ancient ballad without any comment, only observing, that the poets were the best, if not the only historiands of obscure and remote times; their songs were commonly true, else they could not hope for the attention of those illiterate days; and the theme was usually some remarkable transaction, well known in the vicinity of the bard. Accordingly we find, that by the songs of Thaliessin, the bones of King Arthur were discovered at the distance of 646 years from the death of that conspicuous monarch; and I am convinced that a due attention to these old poems may bring to light innumerable antiquities, and elucidate events now buried in obscurity.
According to the best historians, Arthur died on the 21st of May A.D. 542. In the year 1188 or 1189, King Henry Ii. finding an account of Arthur's burying-place in the songs of the old Welsh Bard Thaliessin, and having great faith in the facts related by these old poets, caused the ground to be opened, that he might see the remains of that celebrated warrior.
Externally there appeared two columns similar to these standing at Penrith at each end of the grave. After digging, some say seven, others sixteen feet, they came to a prodigious large flat stone, when turning it, they found on the under side a leaden cross, with this inscription,
Hic Jacet Inclitus Rex Arturius, In Insula Avalonia.
 Here lyes the Famous King Arthur, in the Island of Avalonia.
This inscription was engraven on that side of the cross which was next the stone, so that till the cross was separated from the stone it could not be seen. Underneath they found, in the trunk of a large oak hollowed for the purpose, bones of that prodigious size, that Cambrensis( who lived at that time) relates, from the authority of the Abbot of Glastonbury, that the shin-bone being placed by the leg of a very tall man, reached three fingers breadth above his knee. His scull was likewise found, of vast, but proportionable size, and upon it appeared ten wounds.
see stow's Chronicle, p. 55. -- Guthrif, p. 102
On the south side of the town stands the castle, on a rising ground, and seems once to have been a place of strength, as it is surrounded with a moat and other defences. The first founder is unknown; but before the year 1237 it must have been a very inconsiderable fortress; for at that time we find, that 200 librates of land were granted to William King of scots. These were to be set out, according to agreements, in the counties of Cumberland and Northumberland, where no castles were; and in case of deficiency of land so situated, it was to be set out in the neighbouring counties.
Now it appears from the boundary-roll( taken at a perambulation 29. Edward Ii.) that the forest of Inglewood, together with the honour of Penrith, were the 200 librates before named: it farther appears, that in the year 1432, Richard duke of Gloucester,( afterwards Richard Iii.) resided here in quality of sheriff of Cumberland. He repaired the castle, and lived here five years together, in order to collect those northern clans which were of the York party, and to keep in awe those which were of the Lancaster party.
That part of the building which now remains appears to be of a much older date, as the stones are so firmly cemented as to resist the efforts of the workmen who attempted to pull it down; whereas the Duke's repairs, consisting of a tower, porter's - lodge, and some other detached buildings, gave way very readily: besides, the repairs were executed in white stones, whereas the old building is composed of red ones. The most probable supposition is, that before the Duke's coming, it was an old dismantled building,( perhaps burnt and demolished in some of the inroads of the scots,) and of course not rated as a castle, and that the Duke made the old port habitable, and added to it those works of defence which are now taken away. The only remains of the castle are a large square building, and several arched cellars, which were probably the dungeons or keeps. One thing however is remarkable; an arched, subterraneous road leads all the way from the castle to the kitchen-floor of an house in the town, called Dockwray Hall, the distance being 307 yards. such subterraneous roads were not unfrequent in these old fortresses, and were doubtless intended for conveying provisions, and preventing surprises.
Having finished the description of this town, it now remains to give a sketch of its history, which is unavoidably entangled with the general history of the country, and likewise with the history of England. This town and signory underwent no changes different from those of the whole county till the year 1251; at that time they were given as the 200 librates of land which King Henry the Iii. gave, together with 5000 merks of silver, as a portion with Margaret his daughter, who was then married to Alexander King of scots. It was given under the title of the Queen's Haim( or Home) Lands. Though it thus became a property to the scottish Crown, it was only considered as a part of the King's private estate,( for which he did homage or fealty to the King of England, by paying one soar hawk at the city of Carlisle,) and not as being part of the scots dominions. This appears from an assize held 6. Edward I.; also from an inquisition taken at Carlisle in 21. Edward I. before Thomas de Normanville, the King's Escheator, beyond Trent , A.D. 1292. The jurors there find, that the said manors are worth 200 pounds, and that John Baliol is next heir, and of the age of thirty years.
Edward, however, in the 26th year of his reign, having quarrelled with Baliol,( then King of the scots,) seized these lands, and gave them to Beck Bishop of Durham,( known by the name of the Fighting Bishop:) He enjoyed them not long, for being summoned to attend a parliament, held at Carlisle in the thirty - third of the same reign, and not appearing, the lands were adjudged to the Crown. In the year 1306, and the thirty - fourth of his reign, Edward gave these lands to the Duke of Britanny: In his family they continued till 11. of Edward Iv.; when Ralph de Nevil( then Duke,) being slain in battle at Barnet, they again reverted to the Crown for want of heirs. They continued in the Crown till William Iii. gave them to William Bentick Esq;( afterwards Earl of Portland,) his favourite page: In that family they continued till 1784, when his Grace the present Duke of Portland sold them to his brother-in-law the Duke of Devonshire.
This town of Penrith hath several times severly suffered by the inroads of the scots, particularly in the 19. of Edward Iii. when 26,000 entered Cumberland, laying waste all before them. They burnt Penrith, with several other villages; carried away all the inhabitants whom they could any way make useful into scotland, and there publicky sold them to the highest bidder: they likewise carried off 40,000 head of cattle, and committed such barbarities on the defenceless and weak as humanity must shudder at. In the 6. of Edward the Ii. they likewise made an incursion, and destroyed this town, at which time it is supposed many of the inhabitants hid their money in the walls of their houses; being afterwards either killed or carried away captives, the money was frequently left there; insomuch that an old house is seldom pulled down but some silver and other coins are found. These calamities, joined to a want of water, and great distance from coal,( the nearest being 26 miles land-carriage,) made this town very thin of inhabitants: but in the year 1748, Bishop strickland of Carlisle remedied the former of these wants, by purchasing of the owners of certain Mills,( particularly Vaux of Catterlin,) so much of the water of the River Petterell as would flow through the eye of a mill-stone. This he generously, at his own expence, conveyed to Penrith, and the water still continues to flow in the same quantity, and no more. since the general use of pumps, no town perhaps is better supplied with water; scarce any house being so inconsiderable as not to be provided with one of those useful engines.
After the Bishop's patriotic exertion, the town continued to increase till the year 1598, when the plague almost depopulated it; since that time, it has flourished gradually, and seems likely to increase. What probably has added to its prosperity is, that, besides the Queen's school, there are several charity-schools, where indigent children are taught reading, writing, needlework, and every other branch that can make them useful members of society.
Among the illustrious families which this town hath produced I shall only select one, as the rest will be mentioned in other places; I mean the Huttons of Hutton Hall. An honourable record of this family appears upon a brass plate which was in the old church.
" Here lyeth Mary, daughter of Thomas Wilson secretary of state to Queen Elizabeth," who was first married to Robert Burdett of Bramcourt, in the county of Warwick," Esq; by whom she had sir Thomas Burdett, Bart. and several sons and daughters;" and was afterwards married to sir Christopher Lowther, of Lowther in the country" of Westmorland, Knight. Her daughter Elizabeth Burdett was married to Anthony" Hutton of Penrith, in the county of Cumberland, Esq; with whom she lived" and died the last day of May, Anno Domini 1622." This old lady did not live in the same house with her daughter, but in an house( at her desire) called Bramcourt, or, as commonly pronounced, Bramercourt.
 Descendent of that Thomas Burdett, of whom speed tells us a very remarkable story, Book Ii. p. 688. King Edward Iv. being on a progress in Warwickshire, and taking his diversion of hunting in Arrow park,( belonging to Burdett,) among other game killed a white deer, which Mr Burdett highly valued. This being told to Burdett, that his buck was killed, but no mention made of the King's name, he wished that the buck's horns were in that man's belly that killed him, or in his that first proposed it. some court sycophants being at hand, reported his words, and accordingly he was tried and condemned to death; in consequence whereof he lost his head at Tyburn, and was buried in Grey Friars Church at London.
On the North side of the chancel was the following inscription on a neat monument.
" Here lies interred Anthony Hutton, Esquire, who was a grave, faithful, and judicious" Councellor at Law, and one of the masters of the High Court of Chancery; son" and heir to that renowned knight sir William Hutton of Penrith, and was matched" into the noble family of sir Thomas Burdett of Bramcourt, in the county of Warwick," Baronet, by the marriage of his virtuous sister Elizabeth Burdett; whose pious" care and religious bounty hath erected this marble tomb, to perpetuate the memory" of so worthy a commonwealth-man, and so dear an husband, who died the 10th of" July 1637.
Before I leave Penrith, I must mention two pieces of church-history which occurred too late to be inserted in their proper place. The first is, that there was from the time of Edward Ii. till the 20. of Richard Ii. an house of Grey Friars here, but so poor and small in number, that the name alone remains. The other is this; In the year 1355, some persons having committed several outrages in the church and church-yard of Penrith, Bishop Walton issued out a mandate to sir Thomas rector of Burgham, and John de Docwray, threatning the greater excommunication to all concerned therein. Upon this, several of the parishioners went to Rose Castle and owned themselves guilty to the Bishop, humbly begging pardon, and intreating him to withdraw his mandate. This he consented to, upon condition that each of them should make an offering before the image of the blessed Virgin, the sunday following, of a wax candle three pounds weight.
Passing through the church-yard, and proceeding past Hutton Hall and Bishop Yards,( a handsome edifice, and the residence of J. Richardson, Esq;) we arrive at a field called Bishop's Flatts, from whence is the best view of the town: the church and some of the principal houses are in front, and the venerable ruins of the castle in the back view, whilst the blue distant mountains close the landscape. Besides the pleasure of the view, this place serves to stop, and breath a little, before we ascend the steep hill on which the beacon stands. The journey is laborious, though a fine green path renders is more pleasing; but when we arrive at the beacon, the beautiful and extensive prospect makes ample amends for all difficulties. If the day be clear, you see Cumberland spread like an immense map under you. Nor is your view limited to that alone, Criffell, Cheviott, and Queensbery Hill in scotland, are visible towards the N.E. though 80 miles distant. On the south, the mountains from stainmoor in Westmorland, to Inglebourgh in Yorkshire, rise in various tints of blue and purple. In the West, Helveylin and st sunday's Cragg rear their rugged heads, whilst Ulswater is seen extended like an azure mirror at their feet; and towards the East, that immense ridge of mountains called Cross Fell, extends itself no less than 30 miles in length; which, when covered with its Helm, exhibits a surprising and singular spectacle. From hence likewise may be distinctly seen, even with the naked eye,( provided the day be clear,) Carlisle, the white house at Gretna Green and solway Firth; whilst all the nearer parts of the country offer themselves to the eye, so beautifully bespotted with villages, woods, heaths, forests, ruins, and elegant seats, that it must be seen, and not described, in order to convery away an idea of the grandeur of this prospect. To assist my reader as much as possible, I have, in the annexed Plate, drawn lines of direction to the several objects; let him therefore find one of them,( Ulswater, for instance,) and lay the Plan with the proper line of direction pointing to it; the Plan will then explain the country round, much better than the generality of guides will be able to do.
 The line is drawn through the hill, at the foot is the lake called Dunmallard.

