

The road to Lancaster has the flat called the Fild on the left, and ill-shaped mountains on the right. The road is excellent, and the approach to the town the most striking of any in the kingdom. The Castle and the Church on a fine hill uniting as it were in one immense and finely broken building, breaks upon the eye all at once, at the most fortunate distance. But as I shall appropriate another Letter to the description of this place, I shall conclude this with assuring you how much I am,& c.
Letter Vii.

Dear Sir, Lancaster, July 29."
In my last I endeavoured to give you some idea of the striking appearance of this ancient Borough, when seen about a mile off, on the London road. The huge square Tower of the Castle is picturesquely broken broken by the intervention of smaller ones; the fine Tower of the Church also seems part of the assemblage, and both these being on the summit of an high hill, with the town falling in an easy slope down the sides of it, make a group that impresses the idea of a more stately town than we find it. Every thing, however, both without and within doors, is neat and clean to a proverb. not that it is so because there is nothing to dirt it-- considerable bustle is occasioned by an extensive West India Trade, which employs fifty sail of ships, many of 300 tons burthen, which can float close to the side of the town. An extensive wet dock near the mouth of the Lune will admit ships of the largest burthen.
The imports here are principally Rum and Cotton; and the exports, Provisions and Mahogany Furniture; in the taste and elegance of the latter they are scarcely equalled in the Capital. Ship Building also employs a great number of hands, and the stouter ships are said to be built here than in any other port in the kingdom. Cotton Mills, Cotton Weaving, Bleaching and Stamping, also employ many in the town and neighbourhood; as well as spinning and weaving Sailcloth. -- Hence much of the rough stone buildings have made room for elegant houses of beautiful hewn stone: beautiful I say, because it is variegated with streaks of ferruginous earth, so as to represent landscapes, foliage,& c. that give the houses a very singular appearance. Of this stone was lately built an handsome Town Hall; under which and its massy portico the market-people find good shelter: the strength of the pillars of this portico may perhaps be excused, from their having a large-temple like turret to support, besides the usual pediment. This idea in Architecture is new to me, and it has a good affect.
The New Bridge does great honour to the Architect, and to the munificence of the County. -- It consists of five large and equal arches, over which the road is a straight line, so the ascent is at each end only: the arches are a flat oval; hence it has much the appearance of the light Cycloidal Bridge over the Arno in Florence. The pressure on the buttress of the arches is judiciously taken off( or rather brought to balance the rest) by large perforations over each pier, like those in the broken bridge of the Via Sacra at Rome. -- These perforations have their entrance decorated with a pediment supported by two Doric pillars;-- and the ballustrade is of turned stone. In short, I think this the most beautiful bridge, for its size, of any in England.
The Old Church is a large Gothic structure, which, with its steeple and the Castle, make a useful sea-mark.
The Castle is now the County Prison, and large additions are making to it, consisting of Solitary Cells that may accomodate above an hundred prisoners. This useful regulation( now growing so universal), it is to be hoped, may prove the means of preventing crimes: for it is certainly more consistent with the wisdom and humanity of a State to prevent rather than punish crimes. But, indeed, it is a satire upon either our laws or the morality of our times, that such novel regulations are necessary. These additions will break the huge masses of the old Castle into a more elegant appearance, when finished.
The Gateway of this antient structure consists of two octogonal Towers of vast size, which the Gate itself and the Curtain over it unites, with the usual opening for a Portcullis. These two Towers have their top-projecting turrets in perfect preservation, by which the besieged, in former times, could annoy an enemy( endeavouring to break through the wall) with great stones, scalding-water,& c. and be perfectly secure themselves.
The Towers of the Castle( about a bow-shot distance from each other) with the Curtains that go between each, inclose about two acres of space: in this is included the vast square Tower which contains the Shire Hall,& c. and on the top of which, in a corner turret, is a square recess called John Of Ghaunt's Chair. From this alarming height the prospect is diversified beyond description! The great bay or inlet called Lancaster Sands seems spread out before us like an immense lake, setting the Alpine mountains north of it at a proper distance for exciting wonder in those who have been used to a flat country. Blackcoomb rises from the sea, on the left, with round majesty; and the flat well-cultivated Peninsula of Furness makes a good foreground to it. Further to the left appears Peele Castle, sticking out of the sea like a man's nose. Turning to the right, Cunnistone Fells, Langdale Pikes, Hill Bell,& c. indent the horizon with grand and broken masses, very like the Tyrolean Alps as seen over Lake Constance. More to the right, the Panorama softens into cultivated hills and vallies, here and there overlooked by frowning eminences, such as Ingleborough, Farlton Knott,& c. From these the country inclines downwards to the dead flat called the Fild, which makes a curious contrast with the Bay, one being an expanse of water, the other of wood, farther than the eye can see. Bending the eye still more downward, the Town is seen beneath our feet more like the Map of a Town than the Town itself. The winding River and the two bridge diversify this view.
From this giddy height we descend to examine the antiquity and progressive increase of this huge pile of building. It is almost unnecessary to say, that the names of places which end with caster or cester were originally Roman Towns or Stations. They were originally situated on eminences, and if those eminences were surrounded nearly by a river, so much the better. This is precisely the case here, the Lune or Lon( for so it was antiently called, and the country people call the town Loncaster to this day) winds round the hill on which the Castle and Church stand, and on which was the Station; the remains of which are yet visible in a double Vallum that winds round the hill; and a round Tower( now incorporated in the Castle, and called the Dungeon Tower) is said to be a part of it, and built by Adrian about the year of Christ 124.
This Tower had the square one called the Shire Hall added to it about the year 305. Constantine( father of Constantine the Great) built another Tower facing the Town, called the Well Tower, from a well under it. After the Norman Conquest, the Castle was considerably enlarged by John Earl of Morton and Lancaster, by erecting the Tower called the Gatehouse, very like, and almost as large as the late Bastile. When the Earl became King, he gave audience to the French Ambassador in this very Tower; and here also received homage from Alexander King of Scotland, who he subdued.
There were several royal Earls and Dukes of Lancaster before John of Gaunt, who about 1362 married the Heiress of Duke Henry Plantagenet; and Henry of Bolingbroke his son( Henry Iv.) united the Lancashire and Yorkshire estates, which were so large and so many, that he was the greatest subject in Europe, as Duke of Lancaster; insomuch that the Chancellorship of this Duchy is among the best things the King of England has in his gift at this day.
Letter Viii.

Dear Sir, Lancaster, July 30."
A Digression from Lancaster up the Vale of Lune to Kirkby Londsdale is one of the most beautiful rides in this country. Hanging Woods wind in such convolutions as if to prevent this rapid river getting to the sea; and in many places does it seem to hesitate, and pause in fine sheets. Art also lays obstacles in its way by dams for Cotton Mills, Forges,& c. It suffers not these interruptions peaceably, but roars in perpetual complaint( never out of hearing) up the whole vale.
Caton lies in the opening of this Vale, a straggling hamlet of good houses, and swarming with children, many of whom are sent from the work-houses of London to the Cotton Mills of this and other places, and where they can, at a very early period of life, maintain themselves.
Whether thus crowding a number of poor children together in rooms where the floating fibres of cotton make a fog and must be inhaled at every breath, and where the rattle of machines is only broken by obscenity and oaths, can contribute to the health or morality of such numbers of the future community, is an object, I think, not unworth of Legislative enquiry. It is not unlikely this mode of getting rid of children troublesome to a parish, may counteract the good effects of Sunday Schools, and partially deluge us again with ignorance and barbarism.
The Valley consists principally of grass farms, which is certainly a wise conformity to the climate and country: for crops of corn must be very uncertain where so much rain falls, and where the winter sets in so early. Here is, however, some tolerably-looking wheat, and the oats and barley are luxuriant. Notwithstanding this, I cannot say but I am almost sorry to see in the North of Lancashire and Westmoreland, lands made arable by great industry, which Nature designed only for breeding of cattle, sheep,& c.
Before the wonderful success of Mr. Bakewell in breeding cattle, this Valley( at Borough Hall, the seat of Mr. Fenwick) produced the largest and most beautiful breed of horned cattle of any in England; and no wonder, for the pastures are the richest I ever beheld:-- there is a silkiness in the grass, and a botanical variety in its species, surpassing the fine herbage in the plains of Lombardy that produce the Parmesan Cheese.
But before we reach this part of Lunesdale, we are struck with Hornby Castle, on a fine hill in the middle of the Valley. This like all the ancient seats in the North of England, had defence as well as convenience to be consulted in its construction-- accordingly an high, strong, and square Tower makes a part of every old house. On one corner of that which gives grandeur to the look of Hornby Castle, is placed an octogonal Turret, from the windows of which an extensive and variegated prospect opens on three sides. This Castle was built and possessed by the Stanleys, as well as the Church below, indicated by inscriptions on both. The Castle is modernized by the addition of a tolerable house, built or enlarged by the notorious Chartres of lascivious memory, who made this retreat( when the dupes of his usury left Town) the scene of his debaucheries.
This Castle, the octogonal steeple of the Church, a house with a front of Corinthian pilasters( very like the Maison Quarr É at Nismes), together with the hanging woods near them, have afforded a fine subject to an ingenious Landscape Painter. There is the frustum of a Pyramidical Stone in the Church Yard about seven or eight feet high, with Saxon arches engraven upon it, that looks antique: when whole it must have been near twenty feet high, and proportionably thick, and probably of one stone; but tradition is silent, and no inscription remains upon it.
Kirkby Lonsdale( like the Celtic names in Scotland and Wales) has its name indicative of its situation, i. e. a Church in the Side of Lune's Dale. It is a pretty town, and inhabited by genteel people. It stands on a bank or eminence above the Lune; and from its church-yard is a pleasing view of Ingleborough, Lonsdale,& c.
Letter Ix.

Dear Sir, Ulverstone, August 8."
At the hazard of our lives we arrived here, having no compass, when a thick fog broke in upon us on the middle of Lancaster Sands. Our horses certainly smelt the land, for by them and Providence we got safe to it.
These Sands form a prodigious Bay when the tide is in. The two arms that embrace this Bay are the Peninsula of Furness on the North, and the Rossa Point on the South. The first part of it, which is crossed in the road to Ulverstone( or what the country people call Ooston) is about eleven miles over; the road is more even than a gravel walk in a garden, and suffers a grand view of the rugged country that surrounds it. We enter the Sands about four miles from Lancaster, and taking a sweep with the eye, the first land feature is Farleton Knot, a huge rock as large, and very like the rock of Gibraltar. The various bands of strata of limestone that form this mass, incline a little to the West; and the uppermost, which forms the surface of the mountain( and which surface is exactly like the little ridges on the sands left by a retiring tide), seems a proof that this calcerous heap must have once been under the sea.
Wharton Crag is the next striking feature to the left. The limestone strata which form this round hill, look like so many bandeaus wrapt elegantly round a handsome head.
Then opens Milnthorp Sand, formed by the Ken, a river which gives name to a well-cultivated Dale, and to the largest town in Westmoreland. Nature on this Sand has long spoken, in very intelligible language, the wish she had that it should be inclosed. She has planted large patches of grass over thousands of acres, which only equinoxial tides cover. Now was the Ken diverted from its present course along the side instead of the middle of this sandy Bray, the land would soon get the better of the sea, and bank it out without labour, with a fine sward. Some - thing of this kind has been proposed, I understand, and over-ruled; but I venture to prove the project practicable, and that at a small expence.
On the left of this Bay is Castle Head, a seat under a hill of romantic beauty, from whence shoots the Peninsula of Cartmel Fell, as far as Humphrey Head, a frowning Promontory that has long withstood the buffets of old Ocean, and still defies its utmost fury. At the end of the eleven miles above we arrive at the Promontory, which obstructs our way to Ulverstone; but not without compensation, for it affords a Salt Chalybeate Spring of great salubrity, which is much resorted to in summer, the town of Cartmel, and Hooker, the beautiful seat of Lord George Cavendish.
Having passed the Peninsula, eat flounders( called flooks) at Flookborough, we again enter the Sands, and ride three miles over them before we arrive at Ulverstone. In crossing each of these Sands, we cross also two rivers, each sometimes more than half a mile wide. This sounds alarmingly! but it is seldom they are more than foot deep. Indeed, I have crossed them when we were obliged to open the two doors of the chaise, and let the water run through; but this is seldom the case.
Fatal accidents sometimes happen, and sometimes ludicrous ones. A Gentleman's horse was some times ago drownded in crossing one of these rivers too late. The horse floated, and the Gentleman stuck to him, as a wrecked seaman would to a plank. The Man and Horse were carried up by the tide a considerable way inland, and so near the shore that he tried by the long tail of the Horse if he could touch the bottom. No bottom was to be found! The tide turned, and the Man and Horse began to move towards the main sea! His heart sunk within him, though he still swam by the assistance of the Horse's tail. Several miles was he carried by this uncouth navigation, when once more he was determined to try if he was within soundings. Having fastened one hand to the horse's tail, he plunged into the sea, and think what must have been his feelings when he felt the bottom!-- Providence had placed him on a sand-bank! He stood up to the chin-- the waves went over him-- he disengaged himself from his good friend the dead horse, and waited there till the tide for-sook the Sands, and got safe home.
Anecdotes of this kind are without end in this neighbourhood, but misfortunes seldom happen except by carelessness; so that they should not deter people from crossing the Sands; for though a singular, it is not an unpleasant ride.
Letter X.

Dear Sir, Ulverstone, Aug. 8."
Ulverstone is situated on that rich Peninsula called Low Furness, the only corn part of Lancashire that bears any resemblance to the open parts in the South. Besides corn, it produces that iron ore called Haematites, of such a quality that no malleable iron can be made from English ore without a mixture of this. It is got at about twenty or thirty yards deep in the ground, lies in a regular stratum, is crumbly, and dyes the fingers of a brick-colour. This ore, and the woods for charcoal, have greatly enriched this country, for they seem made for one another. Hence many iron furnaces and forges are to be met with on this peninsula, and landholders find it almost as profitable to let their grounds grow over with wood as to cultivate them, for every fourteen or fifteen years the wood is cut down and charred. These woods agreeably hid the rugged asperities of the mountainous part of this country, and give an air of shelter and warmth to it.
To the Abbey of Furness this whole peninsula belonged. -- The Abbey is a ruin in the low and rich part of the neck, but so mutilated, that it is scarce worth a digression of fifteen miles from Ulverstone. It contained a society of Cistertian Monks, who were dissolved at the Reformation.
The ride from Ulverstone to Cunnistone Lake is through woods and rocks that must astonish and alarm a stranger: but when he arrives at the bottom or foot of the Lake, he will be struck with a scene of such tremendous barrenness as no words can describe! Cunnistone Fell, Tilberthwaite,& c. seem nothing but rock, and overtop in height, as well as ruggedness, all the mountains on the Lancashire side of Windermere. At the bottom of these, and near the head of the Lake, are some pretty inclosures, and better houses than might be expected in such a country. The seat called Cunnistone Water Head is really a paradise in a desart; and these mountains also produce copper, and the fine blue slate so much esteemed in the Capital.
Rising a very steep hill by the Highcross, we get a peep at the Lake of Windermere, the paragon of all the Northern Lakes; but first we fall down into Hawkshead, a small Market Town, where the houses seem as if they had been dancing a country-dance, but being all out, they stood still where the dance ended! or, perhaps, like Bunbury's Long Minuet, in all attitudes. I can compare it to no other place I ever saw! Its situation, however, is pretty-- it is in a narrow well-enclosed vale, at the head of a Lake called Ested Water. The Town and this Lake make very good objects as seen from Belle Mount, the hospitable seat of the worth and Rev. Mr. Brathwaite, whose kindness and hilarity providentially soften the gloom and rigour of the country.
By the side of Ested Lake we approach the end of the Mountain called Furness Fell, which separates this Lake from that of Windermere. -- The crossing of this Mountain is truly Alpine-- steep, rocky, and cut through stone precipices, whose bottom is washed by the Lake; so that this approach to the Lake of Windermere terrifies while the view enchants! Instead, therefore, of going( as the road directs) to the Ferry, we were instructed to creep along the side of the precipice near a mile, and a few roods above the verge of the Lake, and all at once to turn round and view of the Landscape. The Sun was almost setting, his disk was hid from us by the Mountain, so that his rays illumined the Lake, its Islands, and the opposite Landscape, without being seen himself. Had the best productions of Claud or Salvator been before us, they must have remained disregarded! No pencil ever gave such tints-- no fancy ever threw together such an assemblage of the sublime and beautiful! Christian's Island seemed under our feet-- the other Islands like floating woods-- the Lake itself, a mirror unruffled by a breath of wind, doubled its cultivated margin, and the woods and mountains, that stand as centinels over the seats and villages that shelter in the vallies. These Vales open radiantly to our view, exhibiting a foaming river in the bottom, with fields and houses on each side-- higher up was the woody region-- and above all steep and stupendous mountains!
Langdale Pikes are of so singular a shape, that the imagination might easily conceive them to be two huge lions come down from the planet Jupiter, and reposing couchant at the head of the Lake. But my paper will hold no more, I must therefore defer further particulars till my next.
Letter Xi.

Dear Sir, Bowness, Aug. 8."
Descending from this bird's - eye view of the Lake of Windermere, we embark at the Ferry for Christian's Island. This Ferry, by the bye, seems intended by Nature; for the Peninsulas( called Nabs here) penetrate the Lake just opposite to one another, and leave a narrow space for the navigation. Embarking then at the Ferry, we see, from the extreme transparency of the water, what I have found to be the case all round the Lake, viz. that the ground slopes or inclines very gradually into the Lake for a few yards, and all at once becomes a steep brow; so that where the water would scarce reach the knee, the next step might precipitate the bather down a hill of many fathoms deep. This cost two boys their lives a few years ago, who riding a mare into the water in order to divert themselves with the distress of her foal, and urging the mare over the edge of the precipice her sore feet slid down, and the boys tumbling over her head, and clinging to the halter, drowned both themselves and the mare.
In some places this Lake is thirty - five fathom deep, but so transparent that I have seen a fish not a pound weight attack a bait at twelve yards deep. The sail to the large Island is charming! The mountains open into view in varied succession, and almost divert the eye from the cultivated scene we now arrive at.
Christian's Island is about a mile in length, but of very unequal width, containing about forty acres:-- hence its shores are beautifully indented, and the present possessor( J. C. Curwen, Esq. Member for Carlisle) has with good taste conformed to what Nature pointed out, by decorating the verge with shrubbery, and a walk round the whole Island, that follows the winding shore. This walk presents so many and such contrasted scenes of wild rocks and rich vallies-- of barrenness and cultivation-- of wood and water-- of white villages and black moun - tains-- of abrupt and perpendicular precipices-- with round smooth hills streaked with stone fences, inclosing fields of the richest green-- that the Tourist spontaneously stops every ten yards, and seems desirous of making a day's journey of the walk round this bewitching Island!
Not a breath of wind troubled the Lake this day; it was consequently a mirrour, and doubled every beauty, while my Convex Mirrour brought every scene within the compass of a picture. Calypso and her Nymphs surprized the ship-wrecked Telemachus with threats, but we were more fortunate on this Island; for a beautiful group, including the Lady of the Island and her sweet Chiddren, came with much politeness, and pressed us to partake of their dessert, consisting of grapes, melons,& c. and much we lamented that our time would not permit a compliance with their wishes to detain us a few days.
In our approach to the house we had an opportunity of judging how much its round figure assimilated with this romantic country, and the singularity of its situation; for its outward figure is that of a tall beehive, with the chimnies in the center of its convex roof. This figure, however, is judiciously broken by an elegant portico, near as large and very like that of St. George's - church, Hanover Square. The circular staircase is in the center of the building, so that radii from this inner to the outer circle make the rooms more square than could be expected in a cylindrical figure. Beside, this figure is well calculated to withstand the storms of this exposed situation, and is a striking feature in the Landscape.
We left this delicious seat with regret, and in our passage to Bowness passed by Mr. Curwen's fleet of yachts, sailing-boats,& c., at anchor, which added not a little to the splendour of the scene.
Letter Xii.

Dear Sir, Ambleside, Aug. 14."
Bowness contains the Parish Church of Windermere-- a large white structure, that makes a good object in the Landscape. Its large east window of stained glass is said to have been saved from the demolition of Furness Abbey; the Church must therefore have been built about the reign of Henry Viii. This Window exhibits a Crucifixion in the center, of expressive figures, and is in tolerable preservation. This village is situated on a bay of the Lake; and from a hill just above it there is an extensive view of the Lake and its Islands-- Langdale Pikes-- Cunnistone Fells-- Rydal Hall, the seat of Sir Michael Fleming Cogarth, the large but unfinished seat of the Bishop of Llandaff-- and Rarigg, a seat much like Ferney, the seat of Voltaire.
Through the Woods of the last-mentioned place is a pleasing ride to Low Wood( the Inn where most Tourists set up their head-quarters); and in this ride we pass by the birth-place of Judge Wilson, a character that does honour to his country. Romney the celebrated Portrait Painter, and Walker the Philosopher, date their origin from this neighbourhood.
Cogarth is an ancient residence of the Phillipsons. The estate reaches some miles on the border of the Lake, consisting of beautiful woods and rich pasture-ground. Between two semi-globular Woods is situated the large mansion now building by the Bishop of Llandaff. Its site is so little above the level of the Lake, that I should fear the mountain inundations would be apt to pay it a visit. The Gardens are draining; but why the House and Gardens should be situated in a swamp, when the estate affords situations of every description, this Right Reverend Philosopher best knows. The house is well sheltered by Woods and Mountains on the North-- open finely to the Lake in front, and which from its length makes a striking object, as seen on and about all parts of the Lake.
Low Wood is only separated from the Lake by the high road leading from Kendal to Ambleside, and is convenient therefore for excursions on the Lake:-- boats, lines, and baits are always ready for fishing, and the game are Perch( called Bass here). This social fish haunts particular places, particularly where an aquatic vegetable grows called Meakin. This plant grows to be six or eight feet long, in water about ten or twelve feet deep, forming a curious wood. Over this wood the boat is fixed by an anchor, or a great stone fastened to the end of a long rope, and if the fishing-party consist of Ladies and Gentlemen, the sport is excellent; for every one being equipped with a line and hook, on which the bait is hung, a plummet sinks the bait near to the bottom, and the fishers hold the lines in their hands over the side of the boat. If the perch are hungry, perhaps three or four will bite at a time, giving the hand a shake almost equal to an electric shock; then are they drawn up, and the struggling victims erect their sharp sins, so that the female fishers dare not touch them; squalling and laughter in consequence ensue-- she holds her wet captive at arm's - length, who sprinkles her all over with water, and occasions the most laughable distress!-- I know of no pleasanter diversion than to make one of a good humoured fishing-party on this Lake!-- Sometimes a large Pike will follow the captive Perch up to the very surface, and even make a spring out of the Lake after it.
No bait yet tried will tempt the famous Charr of this or the neighbouring Lakes. This delicious fish is caught in nets, principally in the winter season, and potted for presents. The grey Trout of this Lake grows to 30 or 40 pounds weight, and goes up the brooks and rivers to spawn, and takes up its abode in the deepest part of the water at other times, and therefore is very seldom caught. The brooks which empty them - selves into Windermere afford small Trout in great abundance; and the large Eels may be seen sprawling on the grassy bottom of the Lake like a country inhabited by innumerable serpents. These are taken early in a morning by bearded spears fixed on the end of long poles. But this is a dangerous diversion; for as the bottom of clear water always appears nearer than it is, the unexperienced striker finds the Eel more distant than he expected, and frequently tumbles over the side of the boat.
The stations on this side the Lake, for Views, are many and various. The walk from Low Wood House to the Dove's - Nest is sylvan and pretty. A Hill above Miller Ground affords a grand picture; and higher still, in a field near the Crosses, a bird's - eye view of the Lake, surrounded by huge broken and rocky mountains, is awful and sublime! Should the day be a little over-cast, and the sun's rays break partially through the clouds on some rugged eminence, then have we Gilpin's ideas made manifest of Characteristic Landscape, and the Contrast between huge masses of Light and Shade. The golden tints where the rays strike-- the straight rays, in pencils s, streaming before a black mountain-- and perhaps a black shower springing suddenly up, and frowning in its passage over all, are Alpine effects, unseen in flat countries, and afford rational wonder to the Painter, the Naturalist, and the Philosopher.
Letter Xiii.

Dear Sir, Ambleside, August 18."
We now leave Low Wood, and along the verge of the Lake having a pleasing couple of miles to Ambleside.
This is a straggling little market-town, made up of rough-cast white houses, but charmingly situated in the centre of three radiant vallies, i. e. all issuing from the town as from a centre. This shews the propriety of the Roman Station situated near the west end of this place, called Amboglana, commanding one of the most difficult passes in England, for an enemy could not possibly get through this part of the country without passing this station. Roman bricks, pots, broken altars, and coins, are frequently found near its site, which is now an undefined heap of earth. A few weeks ago some neighbouring gentlemen had the paved road laid bare that leads from it over Kirkstone; it is about eleven feet wide, very perfect, near a foot below the present surface, and is very traceable over the aforesaid mountain towards the Picts Wall. This formed a communication; and a detachment of the Nervii were said to be stationed here.
Beautiful woods rise half way up the sides of the mountains from Ambleside, and seem wishful to cover the naked asperities of the country; but the Iron Works calling for them in the character of Charcoal, every fourteen or fifteen years, exposes the nakedness of the country. Among these woods and mountains are many frightful precipices and roaring cascades. In a still evening several are heard at once, in various keys, forming a kind of savage music. One, half a mile above the town, in a wood, seems upwards of an hundred feet fall. -- About as much water as is in the New River precipitates itself over a perpendicular rock into a natural bason, where, it seems to recover from its fall, before it takes a second and a third tumble over huge stones that break it into a number of streams. It suffers not this outrage quietly, for it grumbles through hollow glens and stone cavities all the way, till it meets the Rothay, when it quietly enters the Lake.
These mountains produce a hardy breed of small sheep, of sweet mutton, and coarse wool. This wool is spun by the women, and woven into linsey woolsey by then men; and this is the principal manufacture through the whole of this part of Westmoreland and Lancashire.
The thin blue slate so much esteemed in London, is got in perpendicular strata in several of these mountains; and though its lamella divide perpendicularly, the limestone strata lie nearly horizontal, though both may be in the same mountain. This blue rag is the general stone of the country-- called Lava by some, and Whinstone by others; but for my own part I conceive it to be a kind of Basaltes, though it does not crystalize, like the Giant's Causeway in Ireland, or Fingal's Cave in the Hebrides, in five, six, or eight sides; but it lies in a kind of cubical or rhomboidal blocks, and splits like island crystal, running in a kind of vein through several mountains in the same direc - tion. This slate is ferried down Windermere; and embarks a few miles below on Ulverstone Bay for different countries.
Ascending up Kirkstone along the above Roman Road, with much difficulty and fatigue( though a carriage may travel over it) we turn often round to feast our ever with the green and wooded Vales below, and are struck with several Tumuli near the summit, one near as large as that at Marlborough. From the summit, the view of Patterdale down a steep Glen of eight or nine miles in depth, is to form a Lilliputian idea) like viewing a Landscape through a Frame of Rock Work-- but such Rock Work!-- Conceive, O reader! yourself hemmed in a road between rocks twice the height of St. Paul's, rugged, overhanging, precipice above precipice! seeming ready to tumble upon you!-- eagles flying over your head, and a brawling brook dashing over great stones at your feet!-- Except Mount Cenis I never saw such a passage.
A Small Lake called Broadwater affords some striking Views to relieve the horror and taedium occasioned by this frightful Glen; and soon we arrive among flat meadows that beautify the borders of Ulswater.
Letter Xiv.

Dear Sir, Keswick, August 19.
Ulswater Lake is surrounded by lofty mountains like Windermere, but is very inferior in picturesque beauty: the style is, however, so similar, the description is almost needless.
Dunmallard, seen over the Lake, is a round planted hill that contrasts well with the naked mountains about; and from Hartsop High Field is a grand View, enlivened by the singular manner in which the inhabitants bring slate down a precipice.
Saddleback seems to brave Heaven with its many - pointed top, and in some Views seems the King of the Mountains with a Crown upon its head.
Greystock Castle, a seat of the Duke of Norfolk, is a good house in the Border style, and the country about it romantic, and in parts rich.
Dalemain, belong to----- Hazle, Esq. also diversifies, with a good house and gardens, the road to Penrith. This town is built of red freestone, but has a neat appearance, and affords every comfort after the fatigue of such a journey. In the church-yard are two single stone pillars, about four yards high, and give yards distant, said to stand at the head and feet of a huge Giant, and thence called" The Giant's Grave."
King Arthur's Round Table is but a little distance from Penrith, but is now only a circular mound of earth, little bigger than a Country Cock Pit.
A Very perfect Beacon yet stands on a hill as a monument of fedal barbarism.
In this road to Penrith we call at Water Milloch. A gun fired here produces the loud reiterated noise of thunder, and two French Horns the effect of the sweetest concert: nothing the ear can convey to the mind approaches so near to enchantment! The distant mountains returning the report one after another, will continue the sound of a gun for twenty seconds, insomuch that when it seems to have ceased, in a few seconds you hear it again. This effect is still more striking on the Lake, near Hallen Mountain, when the astounded ear would believe the whole chaos of Rocks tumbling to the center!
Wild as the scenes are, they are too wild and diversified for the painter-- the whole is sublime and astonishing, but the Parts in general are too ragged and broken for a Picture. This is particularly the attribute of the Views from Lyulph's Tower, except the famous cascade called Airey Force. Here a considerable body of water falls near forty yards perpendicular, with a tremendous noise, over craggy rocks, and if seen from the dark glen below, exhibits by its spray a vivid rainbow. Above this Water Fall( up which no fish one would suppose could ascend), and in many other brooks full of cascades, we meet with great plenty of Trout. Loutherbourg has rather given the Character of the Country than a Portrait of its Parts: his blue tints assimilate ill with the black complexion of these mountains: but as the Painter said to an homely Lady," Madam, I must not" spoil my Picture by a Likeness," so this ingenious Artist has adopted the same address, and made excellent Pictures out of many bad Subjects. Farringdon has been more faithful, with less art: his View make good Prints, but do not give the Character of the Country. It is difficult to select, where Nature surrounds you with profusion. Gilpin, without a Portrait, has given the Character of the Country; and his Water Tints very happily express its bold features, without minutiae.
These are remarks from memory-- I have neither Books nor Pictures with me. Indeed it is some years since I passed through this particular part of the Country, and have therefore assisted my remembrance with a laborious Survey, I stumbled on by accident, written by one Clark.
Gowbarrow is an extensive but open Park, and was some years ago covered with tall oak wood. At its upper end is Glencoyn, a hollow wooded Valley, into which the sun never shines the whole months of November, December and January. At the head of this Glen, Helveylen is seen with its snow-covered head often above the clouds. This is certainly the highest mountain in England, and appears to me higher than Ben Lomond in Scotland.
Patterdale, at the head of the Lake, seems an exclusion from all the world. Shut in by moutains on one side, and by water on the other, the traveller is ready to turn his horse round, and conclude he can get no father. Yet this was once the seat of mirth, innocence, and hospitality. Alas! since a banditti of profligate Miners introduced vice and disease into their happy Valley, they may sing with Old Hoggart of Troutbeck,
These joyful days are now forgot That once we had in Patterdale, When for sixpence we could have had a pot That held a gallon of good ale,& c. Then curds and cream we plenty had, And many a sillabub was made,& c.
An instance of longevity and family transactions are told of the Clergyman of this Vale that seems a paradox, though undoubtedly true: he married and buried both his father and his mother; he christened his wife, and when he married her published the banns himself.
Letter XV.

Dear Sir, Keswick, August 19.
From Patterdale we join the Penrith road to Keswick; and though it is intricate and winding, it affords on every side scenes chequered with elegant variety-- corn-fields-- verdant meadows-- peaceful cottages-- silent gloomy thickets, with great masses of majestic shade formed by a retiring sun. Solitude and Peace reign here undisturbed, except by the rattling Tourist, who excites envy and false ideas of happiness among the peaceful inhabitants; for now it ceases to excite laughter or contempt, when the ruddy lass forgets her dialect, and appears at church in a tall bonnet fluttering with ribbands. Turnpike Roads have destroyed provinical manners and provincial dialects; for, as Goldsmith says," Fashions now not only travel" to the exteriors of the kingdom in stage-coaches, but in the very basket." Every place in this Island is now only London out of town.
I Could once have traced the exact extent of the various Dialects of England, and had them coloured in a map. I traced the limits of the Saxon Burr( or what is called the Newcastle Burr) from Haddington in Scotland to Chester Le-Street in the County of Durham, and made its western boundary the mountains that divide Northumberland from Cumberland. This singular croak is produced by pronouncing the r with the middle of the tongue instead of the tip.
In Westmoreland there were whole vallies of Danes, all relations, and known, when they could get out of their native hollows, by their red heads, and their language being like the baaing of sheep. The Scots having possessed, and mixed with the people of this country, have left the broad noo and hoo instead of now and how, which effectually distinguishes them from their neighbours in Lancashire, whose how and now is more liquid than in the South. I would call this the Mercian Dialect, as it reached, without much variation, from the north of Lancashire, through Cheshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, and Worcestershire; or, if you will, the whole extent of the kingdom of Mercia. Dialects more south and east have run too much into one another to admit of definition; and ere long that will be the case with the whole kingdom.
A Specimen of the Westmoreland Dialect I shall give in one of the Country's Riddles:
I went toth' wood an I gat it," I sat me doon en I leakt at it;" En when e saa I cudn't git' t," I teakt heam we ma."
Made In English Thus:
" I went to the wood, and I got it," I sat me down and I looked at it;" And when I saw I could not get it," I took it home with me.It is perhaps unnecessary to say, that the solution is," a thorn in the foot."
In respect to manners and customs, they were for centuries transmitted from father to son, and much remains to be obliterated yet, before the people here will be like the rest of the kingdom. Though all are Protestants, many Roman Catholic customs remain, with-out the people of the country being at all conscious of it, and superstitions; in the oeconomy, domestic manners, and common employments; nay, their country music, of the serious kind, partake still of the Romish chaunt. The Mountain spirit of Independence and Liberty lingers yet among them, as well as the hardy, daring, warlike, and manly firmness of mind by which their forefathers repelled the Scots, and preserved the Border from their incursions. Sorry am I to see this generous spirit prostituted in wagering over a market-day pot, or misled into violence by Aristocratic Influence. When this baneful prostitution cannot be kept out of almost inaccessible Mountains, no wonder it has over-run the rest of the Kingdom.
But to return to our Tour, and leave a Hateful Disease, which only reason and honesty can cure; let us again turn our eyes on the grand and sublime of Nature, and despise the littleness of human systems and petty competitions.
The Village of Threlkeld is in the Barony of Greystock, and, as well as many other Villages through the whole County, under Border Tenure.
Near Threlkeld is the Vale of St. John's. I shudder when I think of this Vale! Two days after a water-spout fell here, I saw its devastations, and have the clearest idea of it to this hour, though then a child. It was in August of the year 1749, when in two hours the whole Vale was filled with water, many feet deep-- not a bridge, wall, nor house was left in it. A mill was so effectually erased, that one of its stones has not been found to this day! and a little above it, the side of the Mountain was excavated into a gully that would hold St. Paul's! This rich Vale has been( in part) rendered inarable ever since; and in some parts of it stones of twenty tons weight( washed from the Mountain) are piled up in heaps by the inundation, to a dozen yards in height, and bid defiance to all attempts at removal.
Saddleback figures in the scenery of this Vale; a frightfully-broken Mountain on one side, and pretty smooth on the other. On its top are hideous chasms of near a thousand yards deep! and near it a Lake, Tarn( as the country-people call a small Lake), which seems the mouth of an extinguished Volcano. Many vitrified substances found on this Mountain make this conjecture not improbable, though, I must confess, I think Water rather than Fire has been the agent concerned in the formation of these Mountains.
Letter Xvi.

Dear Sir, Keswick, Aug. 20."
The road to Castrigg is romantic, though rich and cultivated; and on the hill is Druidical monument, consisting of about fifty stones( placed in a circle), of such size as would almost bid defiance to the machinery and friction-balls used to remove the huge stone into the Square of Petersburgh; and what is very extraordinary, these stones are of a kind not to be found within many miles of this place.
But the mind is called from reflection on the use or antiquity of this Temple, by the fine view these Mountains afford, viz. the Vale and Lake of Keswick! Yet ah! how fallen since I saw it in the year 1749 before mentioned, when the Crow Park, Fryer Cragg, Lord's Island, and indeed all the shores and islands of this beautiful Lake were covered with tall oaks. The view must have been striking, when a child of ten years old had such an impression made by it, as not to be erased for forty years; nay, I think I could draw it from memory at this hour, if I had time. The wood was so even at top( each tree being about eighteen yards high, and very thick) that it looked like a field, and the branches so interwoven that boys would have gone from tree to tree like squirrels. The Crow Park is now a ploughed field, and a fine station for the Landscape Painter. Most of the lands which surround the Lake were forfeited by the Earl of Derwentwater, and appropriated by Government to the maintenance of Greenwich Hospital, so that it was with difficulty that Lord William Gordon, Mr. Pocklington, Mr. Stevenson,& c. could procure land to build their villas upon. These villas, however, have polished the rugged shores of the Lake, and make up in some degree for the loss of its fine woods.
I Am told that the Lake contains near thirteen hundred acres, in which are included St. Herbert's Island, Vicar's Island, Lord's Island, Rampsholm, Ling Holm, Trippet Holm, Otter Island, and the Floating Island. This last is a singular curiosity, something of the nature of Solway Moss, which some years ago floated apparently on dry land. This Floating Island is about twenty yards in diameter, nearly circular, and slopes from its center: it seems an assemblage of matted moss roots, under which a brook( swelled by great rains) insinuates itself, and swells it above the surface of the Lake; hence it only appears in rainy weather, and sinks to the bottom in dry.
The other Islands once broke the level equality of the Lake into striking interruptions. They do so yet in some degree; but when Art joins Rapine to deface a country, the eye must turn to immoveable for relief; and no where will the eye see objects to more advantage than on the Lake.
Look at Wallow Cragg from the vicinity of Lord's Island, an enormous mass of rock fifteen hundred feet high, and you might suppose you could take a Lover's leap from its top into the Lake! Get under this huge promontory if you dare, and then every beauty of the Lake, and all that is grand and sublime around it, lie stretched out before you! Beauty, Horror, and Mag - nificence, contend like the Three Goddesses for the Apple of Approbation!-- The imagination demands a Claude for the cultivated Vales, the white scatted Cottages, the glassy Lake, and its wooded Islets. But a Salvator alone could dash out the frowning Steep, the broken Cliff, the hanging Wood, the foaming Water Fall, and the majesty of cloud-capt impending Mountains!
A Cockney would suppose an Air Balloon the only vehicle by which these beauties could be visited: get into your carriage, and you will find a good road round the whole Lake. But do not sleep in it; alight on every eminence, and every eminence will afford you an interesting prospect; nay, if you look only through the windows, you will see Woods, Rocks, Cliffs, Mountains, vanishing or rising into view, assuming new and romantic shapes at every turn, or losing themselves behind rolling clouds.
Stop at Lodore, and above the Little Inn there is a wonderful view of the Lake, and Skiddow as a back ground. This place seems a door into Borrowdale, and almost shut up by a huge overhanging rock, that seems to threaten destruction to the wight who dare to invade a place which nothing but eagles had visited till within this last thirty years.
A Little above this, among and over wood-clad Rocks, foams the tremendous Cascade of Lodore! dashing from rock to rock with a hideous roar, that may be heard many miles. But in the time of a flood, it seems to despise the gradation by which it usually descends, and flies over rocks and shrubs in one vast sheet, upwards of two hundred feet high! It requires no small resolution to persevere in a visit to Borrowdale, when the entrance so powerfully assaults both the eyes and ears; but your courage will be rewarded by a scene of the wildest sequestration that perhaps ever excited human curiosity. The road is by High Lodore to Grange, a pretty village, with a ruin on a spiral rock, from whence this Stone Vale is seen to great advantage. Imagination would say, that after the world was finished the rubbish was thrown here! One wonders how the inhabitants could scratch a little bread from among the stones! for the whole Vale seems made of Rocks and Stones, and it may be called the World's End without a metaphor! Nature, however, has not left it without its riches: the best, and almost the only black lead in the world is got here, in such abundance, that I have many years ago bought a pound for sixpence, though now it is sold as high as thirty shillings! The mines are shut up by strong doors, and only opened at intervals.
The Slate Quarries may also be reckoned among the natural riches of this Vale, as well as a Salt Spring near Mansety, that cures cutaneous disorders by washing: and the Morasses here are covered with wild myrtle( called Gale), that sends forth fragrant effluvia.
If prospects be your passion, climb a rock at the water-head near Hardendale Knott, and the Lake with its Islands spreads out beneath your feet. Dr. Brownrigg's white House at the foot of Skiddow-- the white Church of Crostwaite, and the white Town of Keswick, beautifully spot the middle ground; and Skiddow( like Mount Ida), with its double top, forms a majestick back ground. This is not a station for a painter-- the objects are too many, and occupy too great a portion of the horizon. Behind, the view is made up of mighty rocks, piled up on one another in every fantastic form-- Pine Apples-- Artichokes;-- nay, conceive a piece of Sugar Candy magnified to an hundred times the size of St. Paul's, and that may assist the imagination.
The sail from Hardendale Knott, in an afternoon when the sun shines on Skiddow, is charming; the several bays and creeks on the side of Branley Park succeed on another in varied beauty; so do the Islands. But you must now wish for your dinner; so we take leave of you once more at Keswick, and to-morrow we mount old Father Skiddow.
Letter Xvii.

Dear Sir, Keswick, August 23."
To shew you as much as I can of this romantic country, I must take you a round-about road over Skiddow.
Leaving Keswick, we ascend a little hill above Portinscale, where a fine view opens of Bassinthwaite Lake. The dark blue mountains above Thornthwaite seem as if they had grown out of flat verdant fields. The landscape is spotted with white houses, and the background is the steepest side of Skiddow, sun-burnt into a reddish-brown colour. The road by Ullock and Great Brathwaite is wild and winding; but on Brathwaite brow is a bird's - eye view of the Vale of Keswick, which pays well for the fatigue of climbing to it. Here Skiddow and Helveylin, the highest mountains in England, are seen together; the first said to be 1156 yards above Bassenthwaite Lake, and the other 1245 yards above Ulswater.
Pouter How in this ride is a pretty building, under a hill of oaks, contrasted by a rugged mountain covered with loose stones; and the road all along the border of the Lake, through Wythop Brow, is on a steep bank covered with fine oaks. The opposite side of the Lake is seen sprinkled with white houses; among which the elegant mansion of Mr. Storey, called Mitre House, is seen to great advantage.
After winding round huge rocks and turf bogs above a mile, we arrive at Ouze Bridge, at the foot of the Lake, where it degenerates into a River, bearing the name of Darwent, to Workington, where( after having amused us in so many ways) it empties itself into the sea. At Ouze Bridge is a pleasantly-situated Inn, where the Horse Regatta took place in the year 1780. This whimsical piece of amusement was, to take a number of horses into the middle of the Lake, to sink the boat under them, and the first horse that swam to shore was the winner. At this place is a pretty seat of J. C. Curwen, Esq. M. P.; and Armathwaite( at a little distance above the Lake) is the beautiful seat of Mr. Speeding.
We now begin to ascend lofty Skiddow. The road inclines round it to the north east, to lessen the declivity; but the horses of the country climb it very well. We visit some rocks, with large regular cavities like large cauldrons, and thence called" Hell Kettles." These excavations, I apprehend, must be worn by pebbles, kept in a circular motion by the eddies in those dreadful torrent of water which tumble down mountains when heavy rains fall.
The rich country about Carlisle, Sebergham, Wigton,& c. now begins to appear; but the mountain grows so steep, with nothing but a sheep-track for the road, that I alight from my galloway and lead him to the summit. Before we reached it, we passed through a stratum of fog which threatened to hide from us the distant objects we came to see. Fortunately it did not cover the top, so we rose above it, and saw it like an undulating sea beneath our feet. Oh, how we prayed for a storm of thunder and lightning in this cloud! But our prayer was not heard-- the fog dispersed-- the curtain was drawn up, and displayed to our view the Coast of Scotland, the Isle of Man, the Welsh Mountains,& c. With a Refracting Telescope we saw the sheep on Mountcreffel on the coast of Galloway, and some of our company believe they saw the mountains of Mourn in Ireland. The View at hand was a sea of Mountains, and, like the waves of that turbulent element, thrown in all forms and directions. The Lake of Keswick appeared like a small bason, and its beautiful Vale like a landscape seen in a show-box.
While the fog continued, we heard the lowing of cattle from the bottom of the Mountain, as if they had been close at hand; and, considering the rolling surface of fog as a sea, the sound appeared to come from the bottom of it. This effect was surprizing, and accounts for the long reiterated sound of thunder. One of our company fired a gun: the reverberation from the different mountains continued twenty seconds, and was thunder in all its horrors!
Our Levels were now fixed, and we found Helveylin and Croosfell higher than Skiddow. The Barometer fell to 26.3.; and the Thermometer to 51. though in the Valley it stood at 79. Fahrenheit's scale.
After drinking our friends in the nether world, we began to descend on the Keswick side of the Mountain, down a sheep-track steep and rugged: here, however, we had nothing to attend to but our feet till we arrived at Armathwaite, the seat of the ingenious Dr. Brownrigg, who opened the way to the discovery of fixed air, by his judicious analysis of the Pyrmont and Spa waters. This house makes a good feature in the Vale of Keswick; and though snugly, is elegantly seated at the foot of Skiddow. The Vicarage is said to afford the sweetest View of any in this country. It is certainly very fine, and but little out of the road to Keswick.
Letter Xviii.

Dear Sir, Keswick, Aug. 25."
Keswick has been more considerable formerly than now: but being the general head-quarter of numerous Tourists, it improves fast, particularly in Inns and Accommodation; and the inhabitants begin to feel( as at Watering Places) that it is very convenient to make the Summer provide for the Winter.
In this Town there is a Will Wimble, of great use to inquisitive Tourists. This officious Ciceroni shows off the Lions of the Town and Neighbourhood to great advantage. He is Commander in Chief when a Squadron of Boats attack Pocklington's Island, and carry the Cellars sword in hand. He also possesses a Museum of local Fossils and other Curiosities, which prove very useful for a lounge on a wet day; and many such days we must endure if we stay long at Keswick. The suddenness of the showers surprizes strangers; for at a time when the sky is clear, and every other indication of a fine day appears, a black cloud will start up instantly from behind a Mountain, and if you are not very near a house, ten to one you are wet before you can run an hundred yards. The mountain winds are also an annoyance; for the reflection of the Sun's rays from rock to rock heats the aire of the Vallies so much, that to restore a level or an equilibrium, the cold aire from the Mountains rushes down their sides with a troublesome impetuosity.
The Moon was at full-- the evening fine-- and, remembering a nocturnal expedition on the Lake many years since, a repetition of it was recommended, and as readily complied with by the party. Two French Horns were placed in a convenient Echo on shore, and we embarked on the glassy bosom of the Lake, directing the horns to play by intervals. Let no one visit Keswick without a sail by moonlight! The scene is so placid, so tranquil, it soothes every care, and harmonizes the most jarring passions!
We rest on our oars, and listen to the horns-- Echo makes them a full concert! Every Rock lends its sweet voice in wild accompanyment-- those at a distance in soft Piano, and those at hand in bold Fortissimo! The accommodating ear, prone to deceive itself, hears Flutes, Violins, Clarinets, in this assemblage; while Lodore thunders a ground Bass with its roaring cascade! Now a gentle breeze carries away the sound, and Lodore alters his key:-- the breeze ceases, and the music descends again upon us!-- Is it a Choir of Angels ascending and descending? Is it fairy-ground realized? or an Arabian Night's Entertainment? -- Reason gives the reins to Imagination, and visions play before the fascinated senses-- Sylphs and Fairies cease to have only poetical existence-- the eye beholds them, and the ear hears them!-- Tritons blow their shells round the Boat, and join then general harmony!-- Blest Imagination! what is Reason or Philosophy without thee!-- How should we get through this Vale of Tears without they help? -- Call that Rock a Giant-- This, the dread Chimera-- That, a Centaur-- Make every Mount a Monster; for among the undefined forms that surround us, the mind may mould a new creation.
But let us awake from this dream. The music ceases, and a silence ensues that may almost be felt. Again we play our oars, and express our happiness:-- again we mark the mellowed Light and Shade, and the soft mantle thrown by Luna" over the fact of" things."-- Where are fled thy horrors, Wallow Cragg? Skiddow becomes a colourless Contour-- the rocks of Borrowdale a Paste. Now quivers a stream of mild effulgence over the Lake, pointing to us, with the Moon impending below it. The downward shrubs, hanging from the Rocks, stand upright in the Lake, and seem by reflection a Wood below the bottom of our Boat. -- So smooth our motion, the Islands seem to approach us, and we are at rest The whole Landscape is in motion-- the indented Horizon puts on new indentations every moment. -- We land, and the enchantment ceases!
" Adieu ye Sylvan delights!-- Rocky" Keswick, adieu!" Care calls me to the Capital, and I must obey her obdurate Commands. -- Oft do I look behind me, as I climb thy prospect-yielding-hill, O Castrigg!
Letter Xix.

Dear Sir, Ambleside, Aug. 27."
Thyrlmere, alias Leathes Water, alias Withburn Water, makes its appearance.-- We approach it by Leathes Park, and are presently hemmed in by this ant-like Lake, and lofty Helveylin( this name is certainly Celtic). The scene degenerates, though we are traversing the skirts of the highest Mountain in England. In vain we look for its top from the road; nothing salutes the eye but large loose stones, which seem to threaten destruction to the traveller below. They say a thunder-shower tumbling down the Mountain in numberless cascades is a singular and an alarming spectacle.
Withburn, at the head of this Lake, is a scattered group of poor houses; every thing about it looks cold and comfortless. The salary of its wretched Chapel was two pounds ten shillings per annum until Queen Anne's Bounty was procured for it. Before this the Clergyman had what the people here call a" Whittlegate" among his congregation, viz. he lived from house to house among them, and his stay was in proportion to the circumstances of his entertainer. The principal landholder here is obliged to keep a bull, a stallion, and a boar for the use of his neighbours.
The road to Raise Gap is very good, and of an easy ascent. By some, this boundary of the Counties of Cumberland and Westmoreland is called Dunmail Raise, perhaps from the Cairn or large Tumulus raised over the body of Dunmail, King of Cumberland, who is said to have been slain here by our Saxon Edmund, and Malcolm King of Scotland. This monument is so near the road that a stranger cannot miss it.
Helm Cragg is here a notable object; something like a large castle blown up by gunpowder; and snug beneath an amphi-theatre of mountains lurks the sweet Vale of Grassmere. This seems a retreat for Arcadian Shepherds, guarded by almost inaccessible rocks from the cives and follies of the world. A beautiful Lake is in the middle of this round Vale; and in the middle of the Lake a large Wooded Island. A flat Peninsula also pushes itself into the Lake, on which stands a Village of white houses, and a picturesque Church. The road is a terrace to the sequestered scene, and invites the Tourist to alight and walk.
Rydall Water next attracts notice. It is a small Lake beautifully spotted with little Islands, and from it rises a vast Mountain, covered half way up with woods. And now the ancient seat of the Flemings salutes the eye with its white face-- it sticks in the end of a craggy mountain like a bird's - nest in a broken wall. It is an old aukward house, but beautifully situated at the front of several inclining vallies, having the Town and the Vale of Amblside, with Windermere Lake, full in front. The large and ancient woods that clothe the sides of the surrounding mountains-- the rich pastures at their bottoms, contrasted with the rocks and cascades above, make the seat of Sir Micheal Le Fleming a curiosity at least, if it has no pretensions to magnificence.
Above the house, and through a wood of fantastic old trees, we are led to a Cascade of great fall, among rocks that break it into sheets in all downward directions; and near the house is another, seen through the window of a Summer House. This has a striking effect; for over the head of the Cascade is an old Bridge, and over that a thicket of tall trees-- and over that a dark Mountain-- and over that perhaps, a dark cloud. In short, an artificial night gives solemnity to the noise and indistinct view of this Cascade, which fills the mind with terror and amazement.
Letter XX.

Dear Sir, Kendal, Sept. I."
From Rydall Hall we pass over a little of our former ground, viz. by Ambleside, Low Wood, and Troutbeck Bridge. We then leave the Bowness road, and strike off upon the left to Kendal. At Oresthead we take a parting view of Windermere, and a very good station it is either for the Painter or Tourist.
Ings Chapel next attracts our attention as an elegant building, and more particularly by its history.
About the beginning of this century one Bateman, a poor lad about sixteen, had acquired a little knowledge of arithmetic, and wished to try his fortune in the Capital. He had neither money nor friends; but a laudable custom of the country operated in his favour, viz. After service the Congregation assemble and make a collection to help forward indigent merit. With this bounty in his pocket, he set off on foot, and was soon made happy in a place where he had plenty of victuals, and nothing to do but clean the shoes, the knives, and the stable. It was soon found out that he neither sold his master's hay, wore his shoes, or pilfered candle-ends or kitchen-fat; nay, moreover, that he could read and write. This necessarily brought him into the Warehouse, where he acquitted himself so well, that the Counting House succeeded. The Merchant into whose family he had the good fortune to stumble, had large concerns in Italy. Our hero was sent to Leghorn as a Factor, where he commenced Merchant himself, and in a few years acquired such a fortune that he sent over money to rebuild the Church where he received his first donation, and also an handsome house, seen on the left a little farther.
I Am happy to rescue from oblivion this Westmoreland Whittington, and wish I could finish his history as well as it began. Alas! he wound up his affairs, put his property and himself on board his last ship, and was coming to enjoy himself, and make his native country happy, when he died in the Straits of Gibraltar, not without suspicion of poison. The ship returned to Italy-- the property was lost.
Kendal is a clean-looking town, and consists principally of one street, about a mile long. The houses are built of the rough stone of the country, so hard, that it bids defiance to the chissel; the interstices are filled up with rough-cast mortar, which gives the houses a white and uncommon appearance. The walking part of the street is paved with limestone pebbles, so very slippery, that the inhabitants acquire a catch in their walk, as if on ice; and strangers often get a fall. Like most country towns, it is made up of good and bad houses oddly mixed together. -- It boasts no public building of note, except its Church, which is one of the largest Parish Churches in England.
The old Castle, on a round hill opposite the town, is a fine Ruin. It incloses about an acre and a half of ground, and has consisted of round and square towers, united by curtains built on the inner bank of a deep dry ditch, surrounding the whole. The vaults( of great extent) remain, and the plan of the interior dwelling may be easily traced. The walls are of vast thickness, consisting of rough stones thrown promiscuously together, and united into an impenetrable solid by fluid mortar, now as hard as the stone itself.
 Fluid mortar, mixed with pounded limestone, hardens into an impenetrable solid, and I believe is the cement of the ancients.
The situation is noble. An high hill in the middle of a Vale is a fine object of itself; but when crowned with a Castle in ruins, it is a Picture. This Castle boasts great antiquity. It was in possession of many eminent families long before the Conquest. The Tailebois, the Howards,& c. have possessed it since: Catherine Parr, the Queen of Henry Viii. was born here, and many of the Barons of Kendal who resided here possessed half the county for an estate.
The Town looks well from the Castle. The Ken washes its skirts, and high ground behind screens it from the North.
 Would to God it washed away the horrid stench the tanners make, who line and contaminate the river!
On the declivity of this ground is a Tumulus as large as that at Marlborough, and no doubt covers the remains of some antient warrior. On this hill in 1788 an Obelisk was erected, sacred to Liberty and the memory of the Revolution.
The material that furnishes bread for the numerous manufacturers of Kendal, is the coarse wool of the neighbouring mountains. This is wove into Linsey, and into the Blankets for the North American Indians; hence the little hills above the town are surrounded with tenters, which adds another singularity to the appearance of this place.
Knit Stockings is another article that employs many thousands of women; but Lincolnshire wool must be mixed with the staple of the country to make good stockings. Silk and cotton have also crept into their simple fabrics, as luxury increases.
The trade of this town will be much benefited by the Lancaster Canal now in contemplation. The reciprocation in this work will be coals and limestone-- Westmoreland wants coals, Lancashire limestone. This Canal is intended to reach from Kendal to Lancaster, and from thence to Preston, where it will join the Leeds and Liverpool Canal, and open a Water Communication with every part of the kingdom. Every friend to the trade and enterprizing spirit, of these countries must give his heart support or hearty good wishes to this undertaking. It embraces the general good. Private views seem banished, from the fair and open propositions now offered to public patronage by the disinterested and judicious patriots who have estimated its practicability. It seems very wonderful, that in this uneven country a Canal should be capable of extending ninety miles without a Lock.
We return to Lancaster, and returning to London by the same route with which we set out, here ends my Journal.

