

A Topographical Description Of Cumberland, Westmoreland, Lancashire, And A Part Of The West Riding Of Yorkshire; Comprehending, First, A General Introductory View. Secondly, A more detailed Account of each County; its Extent, General Appearance, Mountains, Caves, Rivers, Lakes, Canals, Soils, Roads, Minerals, Buildings, Market Towns, Commerce, Manufactures, Argriculture, Antiquities, and the Manners and Customs of its Inhabitants. Thirdly, A Tour through the most interesting Parts of the District; describing, in a concise and Perspicuous Manner, such Objects as are felt worth the Attention of the curious Traveller and Tourist. Illustrated With Various Maps, Plans, Views, And Other Useful Appendages. By John Housman. Carlisle Printed By Francis Jollie, And Sold By C. Law, Ave Maria Lane, And W. Clarke, New Bond Street, London. 1800 Address Dedicatory. To Mrs. Howard, Of Corby. Madam, With that deference which is justly owing to a Lady of your rank, merit, and cultivated taste, I venture to inscribe this little work to you, as a mark of respect due to your many amiable virtues, and as a tribute of gratitude for the kind attention you have been pleased to bestow upon me. Whether it may, in any degree, be worthy of your acceptance I am much in doubt, but shall willingly submit to whatever sentence you and the public may think it deserves. I am far from presuming that my book is free from errors( some of which my friends have already pointed out to me), but these, I hope, may be of a venial sort, and which, I believe, are extremely difficult to prevent entirely in a work of this kind.
My original design, Madam, in writing this book, was to convey, in a very brief manner, without entering into long and tedious details, a General Knowledge of these counties, with their peculiarities, inhabitants,& c. that the distant reader, who has not time or inclination to travel, may acquire such information without much trouble, or lots of time; and the tourist find an useful guide, in having all those objects, more or less, noticed, and their situations pointed out, which are felt worth his attention, in the course of his travels through the district.
Besides my own observations made in different tours, I have extracted from the works of several popular writers, such passages as appeared to me the most interesting and illustrative. How far my endeavours have proved successful, I leave to your determination, and to that of an impartial-public.
You must not expect, Madam, to find my descriptions clothed in flowery language, nor in elegant diction - unexaggerated representations, couched in a plain and simple style, were all I aimed at. And as for any mistatement or omission which may be met with, I humbly hope such inaccuracies will be attributed, either to ssome unperceived mistake of my own, or to the misinformation of others, and not to any other cause.
In hopes my book may, in some measure, merit that favourable reception from you, and others who honour me with a perussal of it, which that portion of it already before the public has met with, I shall conclude, and beg leave to subscribe myself,
Madam, Your most obliged, Most obedient, And most humble servant, John Housman, Corby, October 30, 1800.  Topographical Description,& c.  General Introductory View. Besides a great variety of soils, superfices, and internal strata, this kingdom affords much diversification of landscape: but it is in the North where the uncommon and pleasing, the grand and sublime works of Nature, are principally to be met with, and in greatest perfection. It is, also, among the rural inhabitants of these peaceful and sequestered vales, that human nature may frequently be found in her original drefs - neither ornamented by the refining hand of art, nor contaminated with the vices of the world.
If we commence our view at the Land's - End, and extend the prospect along the counties bordering on the southern and eastern shores, we shall find the face of the country, almost as far as London, uneven, and in some places hilly; variegated with tracts of cultivated land inclosed in middle-sized fields, pieces of woodland, coppices, extensive commons, and forests. Among the latter may be reckoned the New Forest in Hampshire, one of the largest in the kingdom, and Cranborn Chace in Dorsetshire. The soil is generally dry, and in some parts chalky. Cornwall is famous for the variety of valuable minerals which it affords, as well as stone for building; Devonshire and Dorsetshire produce great quantities of cider apples; Somersetshire and Wiltshire are remarkable for their manufactories of the best super-fine cloth, kerseymeres,& c.; and Hampsire for its production of hops. - From London to about the middle of Yorkshire, keeping along the eastern side of the kingdom, a flat surface generally prevails, with a foil more or less loamy, and extremely fertile. Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire contain a great extent of fenny grounds, which, it is probable, were formerly covered with the fea. A great part of these fens, by being properly draned, is now converted to excellent meadow and pasture land. This is principally a farming district, the manufactures, which are different sorts of fine woollen stuffs, being confined, in a great measure, to Norwich and Colchester. Flint is almost the only species of stone found here; nor is coal to be met with, the inahbitants being supplied with that artcle from Newcastle and Sunderland. In some parts of this district wood is used for fuel; yet such is its scarcity in the wolds of Lincolnshire, that many farmers continue the unprofitable practice of using their dunghills for that purpos.
Leaving the level parts of Yorkshire, we observe rising grounds, interspersed among fertile vales, till we reach Scotland, with range of mountains on the left, but generally at a considerable distance. The vale of Coquet, towards the northern extremity of Northumberland, is equal to any in England for the fruitfulness of its soil.
The midland counties, and as far north as Derbyshire, have generally an uneven surface, though there are few places where the protuberances swell into hills. The soil, for the most part, is strong and productive; and fine pasturage may be found almost every where in the inclosed districts, but abounds most, and in greatest luxuriance, in Leicestershire, where the finest sheep and cattle are bred. These animals were brounght to a high state of perfection by that valuable member of society, the late Mr. Bakewell of Dishley, who procured hs best ewes from lincolnshire, and cows from Lancashire, and whose improved and much-admired stock is now sought after with avidity by the best farmers in almost every part of the kingdom. - Gloucestershire and Warwickshire afford plenty of coal and freestone; the latter is also found in Oxfordshire. - Most of the southern counties contain vast beds of chalk, which in many places form those green hills called downs, particularly in sussex, Berkshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hampshire, Surry, Kent, Buckinghamshire, and Bedfordshire. Small detached strata of chalk are also discovered in other places, even as low down as Lincolnshire. - The manufactory of straw hats is carried on to a greater extent in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire than in any other place in the kingdom. The women are the principal manufacturers, and often earn more money by that work than their husbands can do by common labour. Lace is another species of manufacture almost peculiar to the contiguous parts of Northamptonshire, Buckinghamshire, and Bedfordshire. A little further north the manufacture of Birmingham Wares commences, and employs a great number of hands, particularly about the northern parts of Warwickshire and an adjoining district of Staffordshire.
The southern and midland counties bear two prominent features, which cannot fail to strike the eye of every traveller, whlst his astonishment at their existence in this age of agricultural improvement must be particularly excited, viz., waste lands, and undivided common fields. Extensive commons, barely supporting a few meagre animals, are suffered to remain almost at the very gates of the metropolis; and in many of the central counties large tracts of the finest land are exhausted by long-continued tillage, in consequence of there being uninclosed and lying in common or open fields - a most inexcusable oversight in the proprieters!
On the other hand, Wales is chiefly a mountainous country, with rocky shores; much of the soil gravelly and dry, and many of the hlls beautifully covered with wood. The borders of South Wles, as well as Herefordshire and Gloucestershire, produce a great abundance of apples and pears, of which cider and perry are made. This country also furnishes great quantities of ores, and a variety of fossils, such as are uually met with in mountainous countries.
With respect to rivers, a general trait is observable. Towards the southern and eastern parts of the kingdom, from the evenness of the surface and uniformity of the substrata, few springs arise, and consequently the rivers are fewer in number, move sluggishly along a muddy channel, and resemble canals; while those in hilly countries are more numerous, and with a pleasing murmur push their transparent streams rapidly over pebbly beds, and delight the ear while they please the eye. - The former class of rivers must be considered more favourable to the imporatant concerns of commerce and navigation; the latter, however, generally affords much more variety, and plenty of fish.
After this brief outline, descriptive of the general appearance, and various produce of the kingdom, we will proceed to those districts more immediately the subject of the work before us. On our approach from the south, the mountains in Derbyshire first make their appearance, which, comparatively speaking, are humble; and, after ranging through most parts of that county, and stretching a little into Cheshire, contract themselves into a chain, and divide Lancashire from Yorkshire. Entering Westmoreland, they again dilate, and turbulently spread themselves over nearly all that county and the southern part of Cumberland. A principal branch of thesse mountains runs northwards, and, after separating Westmoreland from Yorkshire, and Cumberland from Durham and Northumberland, enters Scotland. - This range of hills is of different breadths, and generally presents a formidable and rather uniform front to the sest, mostly covered with green herbage. The tops of these ridges are usually wet, mossy, and boggy; and produce heath, bent-grafs, and rushes. Considered in Landscape, they are lumpish, and rarely picturesque; generally naked and destitute of wood, even at their bases. In this extensive chain of mountains limestone is rarely interrupted: the greatest part of that monster of Nature, Ingleboroughm is composed of calcareous substances, as are several hills of less note. Coal is also found in various parts from Scotland till we reach Brough in Westmoreland, and afterwards appears in the low grounds in the interior of Lancashire.
Beginning at the southern end of the disrict, let us, in imagination at least, soar on high, and extend our view from side to side. The first object that strikes us is the noble River Mersey winding along a flat country almost directly west, and opening a spacious inlet to the sea for several miles previous to its entrance into the main ocean at Liverpool. The western side of Lancashire looks low and level, with canals serpentising in every direction, and the sea making deep inroads on the coast. The eastern side swells into coarse high grounds, with intervening dales, which are continued, but with less elevation and more fertility, through a great part of the West Riding of Yorkshire. Upon this ride of hills, which separates the two counties, the Lancashire rivers have their principal source on the one side, and many branches of the Ouse on the other. - The most astonishing feature, however, in this picture, is its great population. Supposing ourselves ascending to a sufficient height above the fine, spreading, modern-built town of Manchester, with a powerful command of sight, the country for 30 or 40 miles to the west, north, and east, will appear as one continued newly-erected village, scattered among little gardens and fields. These houses, cottages, and factories are planted by the sides of the rivers, on the borders of the numerous roads, and sometimes seem to hang on the declivities of the hills. On the right hand, Sheffield and its neighbourhood is almost continually enveloped in columns of smoke from the great number of founderies, forges, fire-engines, and smithies. The ear, in that disstrict, is continually assailed with the noise of hammers and other grating sounds; while in other parts of this view the clack of the loom is perpetually obtruding itself on the ear of the traveller. Upon the whole, every part of this picture bears strong marks of the unremitted efforts of art except the fields, which are much neglected, and in many parts remain the wildest state of nature.
Travelling further north, we leave the manufacturing country opposite Garstang and Skipton, when the more ancient-looking farm-houses, often with thatched roofs, are seen, at distant intervals, peeping from among tufts of trees in silence and repose. The mountains here, though not very high, approach towards the sea, leaving only a narrow strip of low flat ground along the coast. On the Yorkshire side of these hills the surface is uneven, and the ground generally laid out in large farms employed in grazing sheep and cattle: the population is rather small.
A fine vale continues along the shore from Lancaster to Burton, where the mountains on the right begin to wear a more awful aspect; and immediately beyond Burton, their rude career is only checked by the ocean, over which Warton Crag lifts his gray front in triumph, and defies its most enraged surges. This is only a prelude to what may be expeted in Westmoreland and the southern parts of Cumberland. Nothing now presents itself to the eye of the trraveller but one alpine height rising above another. On the right the hills appear less prominent; while those on the left are high and rocky, shooting up into the most terrific steeps. The pleasant and fruitful vale of Furness is hemmed in by hlls on the north side of an extensive estuary, called Cartmel Sands, opened into the country by the tide.
Leaving the neat white-looking town of Kendal, situated on the River Kent between two ranges of hlls on the right, we scale the rocky heights of Cartmel fells, and come at once upon that enchanting district whose sweet recesses, undisturbed by the metamorphosing hands of art, at a distance from the noise and bustle of commerce or manufacture, and almost shut up from the rest of the world by those natural barriers infinitely stronger than the great wall of Chna, afford residence to a happy race of mortals. This range of irregular, but beautifully picturesque mountains, are generally covered with a dry soil, as are also the pleasant vales which divide them; and, while they inclose a number of large lakes whose waters are clear as crystal, support flocks and herd on their swelling verdant breasts, and often admit the growth of trees even from the crevices of their naked rocks.
The district here alluded to lies partly in Lancashire, partly in westmoreland, and partly in Cumberland, and may cover about 200 square miles, containing eleven large lakes and about as many small ones, which are well worth the notice of the curious traveller who wishes to compare the beauties of nature with the efforts of art. The man also, who, being fatigued with a long continued view of the noisy scenes which always present themselves in the busy world, has an oppurtunity of making a temporary retreat, would, by spending a few weeks among these peaceful dales, find ample gratification; the powers of both mind and body would be refreshed, and he himself would return to business with much more cheerfulness and alacrity.
After peeping through among the narrow winding dales of Westmoreland, and viewing the neat blue-roofed, but thinly scattered dwellings of the rural inhabitants, we reach Penrith, which opens into the less hilly parts of Cumberland. Here we enter into a country almost wholly agricultural, and where the plough is perhaps more followed than in any other inclosed part of England. The hills begin to lower by degrees, and, for the most part, wholly disappear before we reach Scotland. The soil also, as we gradually approach towards the borders of that kingdom, becomes more fertile, except in the north-east corner, where a wet, cold soil generally prevails.
The most striking peculiarity in the general aspect of this district, but more particularly in the two northern counties, Cumberland and Westmoreland, is its great want of wood; and this naked appearance is considerably increased by those numerous and extensive bleak moors which present themselves on all hands to the eye of the traveller.
Cumberland. This county, according to the" Agricultural Survey" of Messrs. Bailey and Culley, is 58 miles in length, from St. Bee's Head, in a north-east direction, to Butterburn; and its main breadth, in a north-west direction, is 30 miles. It is bounded on the west by the Irish Sea, which it accompanies for 67 miles; on the south by Lancashire and Westmoreland, adjoining the former county for 21 miles, and the latter 48; on the east it touches Northumberland for 51 miles, and Durham 7; and on the north, Scotland and the Solway Frith unite with it for 30 miles; making the whole circumferance 224 miles. It contains about 1516 square miles, or 970,240 acres.
In the
General Appearance of Cumberland, we observe some strong features. The south-west quarter exhibits a large combination of lofty, rugged, and rocky mountains, promiscuously jumbled together in the rudest manner, but inclosing many beautiful, though narrow, vallies, as well as fine lakes, rivers, brooks, and some beautiful pieces of woodland. On the eastern confines another range of hills stretches along to Scotland, but with much less picturesque beauty than the former. In front of this last collection a considerably broad tract of low ground extends the whole length, unobstructed by any high mounts, partly cultivated and partly heathy common, and watered by the Eden and in - numerable brooks and rivulets. This vale becomes very extensive before it reaches Carlisle, stretching across the country to Wigton, and from thence towards Workington, including all the northern part of the country. It is, however, neither a level, nor, in general, a low district; but, as it contains no high hills, we will give it tht appellation, in order to distinguish it from the mountainous districts. Along the western shore there is a strip of cultivated land, from two to four or five miles in width, which has rather naked apearance, except in the neighbourhood of Muncaster Hall, where a few woods give the country a cheerful aspect. The tracts of level land in this county are neither numerous nor extensive; being cheifly confined to the borders of the rivers and towards the northern coast. - A stranger cannot but remark a scarcity of wood in this country, its numerous and extensive commons, its fine water, and fabulous air.
Such is the general aspect of the county: we will now examine its partcular parts, among which the
Mountains
form a principal and striking feature. - On entering Cumberland at the south-west corner, Blackcomb immediately presents itself: a very high, black-looking, conical-topt hill: its sides are rather smooth, and cultivaiton is spreading fields up its large base, where also many beautiful farm-houses appear in pleasant situations. The small market-town of Bootle sstands at the north end of this mountain, and the villages of Whicham and Millum on the south; while Whitbeck rears its little cottages directly in front, with the frowning hill just over its head, and the roaring ocean a few furlongs be - fore it. This mountain steps boldly forward, dragging behind it a legion of lower hills ranged in the utmost disorder. The view from its top is extensive: the coast to a great distance on each hand, it distinctly seen, as are the tops of several distant hills in the four counties of Lancashire, Yorkshire, Westmoreland, and Cumberland, and also the southern shores of Scotland, and the Isle of Mann.
Leaving Blackcomb, we pass a number of hills of smaller note till we arrive at Hard Knot and Wry Nose, two tall neighbouring mountains at the head of Eskdale, near the road between Whitehaven and Kendal. These are situated in the centre of a rugged mountainous country, and seldom visited axcept by shepherds. - A little further north is Scaw Fell, a still more secluded, but very high hll, of an oblong form: it is 938 yards in perpendicular height above the level of keswick lake, as determined by Mr. Banks in 1790, and produces that species of moss which is the food of rein deer. Within this centruy several red deer has their residence among these rocky eminences; and not many years ago one was chased into a neighbouring lake, called Wast Water, and was drowned.
In this neighbourhood there are some remarkably craggy precipices, two of which, called Doe Crag and Earn Crag, have fronts seemingly polished like marble: the one is said to be 160 yards in perpendicular height, and the other 120. The cliffs called Screes, bordering the south side of Wast Water, are truly formidable: they are computed to be about two miles in length, and are of an immense height. The front of these cliffs is compossed of loose stones, gravel, and fragments of rocks, some of which are very large. The materials of this bulky mass are constantly shivering, and tumbling into the lake; and when a more than ordinary break happens, it causes a prodigious noise, and even fire and smoke, which give the appearance of lightning to the inhabitants on the opposite shore.
We now direct our course, over Styhead, into Borrowdale. A little above Wastlehead, the bases of the mountains, which are almost naked rocks, destitute even of a single shrub, meet and shut up the valley, rearing their alpine forms to a very uncommon height. The summits of these rocks are broken, and some of them project considerably forward; while their rugged sides are covered with loose stones and fragments of rocks, which have been tumbling down occasionally ever since their formation. On the heights of these precipices( many of which are inaccessible to man) wild cats, foxes, and martins have their abode; eagles also perch, and sometimes build their nests here.
After surmounting the difficulties in passing Sty, we fall into the rocky chasm of Borrowdale, whih perhaps affords such a succession of wild, romantic, horrible, and picturesque scenes as are not to be met with in any other part of Britain. The narrow winding valley, in some laces almost closed up with projecting rocks, and the craggy mountains hovering over one's head, whilst nothing besides the grizzly fronts of these formidable barriers appear, naturally excite a pleasing tremour in the mind of those who are unaccustomed to such views, although no real danger need be apprehended. - Surveying the long ranges of high craggy mountains that inclose Borrowdale, we find ourselves in an amphitheatre of rugged hills, rising one above another in awful grandeur, without affording even a peep into an open country. Among other gigantic mountains that form the great outline of this surprising picture, are Eagle Crag, Glaramara, Bull Crag, and Serjeant Crag. The first a tremendous rock at the head of Borrowdale to the east, where the eagles have commonly made their habitation and their nests. The young eagles are occasionally caught by the adventurous inhabitants of the vale below, who, standing underneath, mark the place where the nest is seated, and, from the point of some cliff, let down by ropes one of the most hardy of their companions to the nest, while the old ones are abroad. Glaramara is a naked roack of immense height, and almost perpendicular. Bull Crag and Serjeant Crag have their rugged sides clothed with hanging woods. - On the west side of this rocky dale, almost opposite the village of Seathwaite, the famous black-lead mine is seen vomiting its useless rubbish mid-way up the mountain. Towards the lower end of Borrowdale is Castle Crag, an eminence of considerable height, from the top of which there is one if the finest views of the lake and vale of Keswick, with all their beautiful and picturesque appendages, closed on the north by the noble mountain Skiddaw and his less aspiring neighbours.
To the west from thnce is a vasst collection of mountains, many of which are nameless to all but a few shephers, and never trod upon but by themselves and their flocks. The most remarkable of those towering eminence are Homister Crah, Robinson Fell, High Stile, Redpike, Haycock, Pillar, and Steeple. This enormous range of mountains terminates at Dent, a beautful green hill just above Egremont. Looking north-westwardly, Grasmere immediately strikes the eye, and in oart hides those numerous hills which rise behind it as far as Cockermouth: it is a long-topt mountain, and said to be nearly as high as Skiddaw. Grisdale Pike, a high hll, with a conical summit, is also seen in that quarter.
This grand assemblage of Nature's monstrous productions lies on the west side of the Derwent: ther aspects vary considerably - some are smooth, and covered with a dry green turf; others are wet and mossy on the top, producing heath, rushes,& c.; while others again present little besides the naked and rugged rocks, shaped in the rudest and most fantastic forms. Several woods and coppices are interspersed among these hills, either spreading along their bases, or beautifully creeping up their sides; and sometimes the very summits are brushed aith a few shrubs and evergreens. Delighful dales open, and wind through among them, in almost every direction, and afford the most pleasing retreats, and scenes of quiet and repose.
We now turn towards Skiddaw, one of the highest and finest mountains in England, whose sweeping declivities nearly reach the eastern margin of Bassenthwaite lake, above the level of which it summit rises, in perpendicular height, about 1100 yards. The distance from Keswick to the top of this noble mountain is five miles: athe ascent by a serpentine turfy patch, tolerably easy: the journey may be erformed without much trouble on foot, nd is even practicalble on horseback, but it is an undertaking by no means recommended. In fine clear weather this is a most delightful excursion: at every step the view expands and new objects present themselves; one mountain successively peeps up behind another; and those which appeared very high at first setting out, seem to lower as we ascend. - As this mountain will be pretty minutely described in the latter part of this work, we think it unnecessary to say more on the subject in this place.
A few miles south-east from Skiddaw, Saddleback rears his vast head. This mountain assumes its name from its top being shaped somewhat like a saddle, as seen in certain points of view; and, though rather humbler than the mountain just described, affords several curiosities well worth the attention of the curious traveller. - A particular account of this mountain will also be found in anoyher part of this volume.
To the east and north of Saddleback, there is a continuation of several hills of less note, principally covered with heath and disagreeable to the eye, which are terminated in the open cultivated part of the county. The most remarkable of these are Souther Fell, Bowscale Fell, Carrock Fell, and Caldneck fells.
From hence to Ulls Water, and also near Ambleside road, the mountains again assume the most awful forms; the highest of which are Helvellin and Cachidecam, on the borders of Westmoreland. These are believed, by the neighbouring shepherds, to be even higher than Skiddaw; it is certain, however, that they are sooner covered with snow, and retain it much longer; but whether their situation in the interior parts of this vast region of mountains, while Skiddaw stands as the sentry, exposed to the more softening winds from the sea and low cultivated country, may not account for the difference, is a question we shall not attempt to determine: however, till the altitudes of these rival mounatins are determined by proper calculations, the points is certainly disputable. - Nothing can be conceived more rude and magnificently awful, than the craggy front of Hellvellin, where huge fragments of rocks without number hang upon its sides, and seem ready to fall upon and crush the astonished traveller. Several have already tumbled down, and are now at rest within the margin of the peaceful lake below. - White Pike, Dod Fell, and Mell Fell, are also prominences which rise considerably above the circumjacent hills; the last is a beautiful, smooth, detached, green hill, of a conical form, not far from the road, which brings us again towards an open cultivated country in the way from keswick to Penrith.
Mouthay, near Cockermouth, is a round-topt verdant hill, from which there is a fne vew to the north, east, and west. A similar description will serve for Binsey Fell, near Ireby. These are rather detached hills; as is Great Barrock, near Hesket, which, however, though pretty smooth, is covered with heath, or ling. - Penrith Fell is an eminence of several miles in extent, and terminates in Blaze Fell and Theif Side, two round-headed hills near Hesket and Armathwaite. The west side of this humble mountain gently slopes towards Plumpton Wall, and is crossed by the London and Carlisle road; the eastern declivity is mostly in an easy decent to the vale of Eden. A few rocks appear in some parts of this fell, which generally produces a great deal of heath, and consequently has a dark complexion; but there are few places where it would not admit of great improvement, even by the plough; and those other incorrigible tracts might be turned to great advantage by planting with forest trees, whle the face of the country would thereby be ornamented and sheltered. Near Penrth this hill has generally a verdant covering, and forms good pasturage for sheep and cattle, but is much overstocked. The races are held here, upon some tolerably good race ground.
We now turn our attention towards the portion of the British Appennines before mentioned, which runs along the east side of this county. From Scotland we enter Nichol Forest and Bewcastle. a cold, naked, and wet district: the mountains, generally speaking, are black, barren, and heathy, although some places present verdant and dry prominences. - Dove crags, and Christen - bury crags, are high hills, and extremely rocky towards the summits, particularly the latter, which affords a very extensive prospect. There is likewise and expanded view from preston-hill, a mount not many miles from Bewcastle. - Spadeadam, a dreary and extensive waste, next occurs. Black, dismal, and hungry-looking moors, varying their elevation, swell their lumpish backs, and form disgusting objects, till we cross the small but rapid River Gelt. Castlecarrock Fell then assumes a more agreeable aspect, at least towards the west, where, from its verdant base, it rises rather abruptly, and ascends quickly to the summit: thence it runs on in a regular ridge, with few breaks, and not much variation in height, to Cross Fell; which, at the confines of the county, rears its lofty head, and overlooks its neighbours in sullen majesty. Between Castlecarrock Fell and Cross Fell, different portions of this range of mountains are distinguished by the names of Cumrew Fell, Croglin Fell, Thackmoor Fell, and Hartside Fell. The front changes its appearance as we proceed: sometimes heathy, sometimes partly covered with fragments of limestone rock, and sometimes the verdant carpet of grass which runs along the foot of the fell spreads up its smooth sides almost to the top. Behind, nothing is to be seen but bleak dreary mountains, till we arrive at Knarsdale in Northumberland, or Aldstone Moor in this county. - The vegetable productions on the tops of this range of hills, are principally bent-grass, rushes, and heath, which predominate by turns.
The following extract of a description of Cross Fell, and of that singular phenomenon, the helm-wind, which frequently rushes from these mountains, and almost desolates the plain below, is copied from Mr. Hutchnson's History of Cumberland( vol. i. page 265); the principal writer of which( the Rev. Mr. Richardson and Mr. Ritson) had may opportunities of making the most accurate observations. -
" The summit of Cross fell is in latitude 54 ° 42' 05" north; its elevation, form the middle part of Lazonby bridge, near Kirkoswald, is 910 or 912 yards, and allowing six yards more for the height of the bridge over the River Eden, it will be about 918 yards; and if you allow 80 yards for the fall of the River Eden into Solway Frith, the hill will even then be fearcely 1000 above the level of the sea: it distance from Kirkoswald is eleven miles and 1040 yards."
" The very summit is covered with moss of various kinds, viz. hypnum, bryum, and innirm. The aira montana, mountain hair-grass; nardus strictus, heath mat-grass; festuca ovina, sheep's fescue, and rumex digynus, mountain dock, are intermixed with the moss. Amongst the stones are oxalis acetosella, cuckow-bread; and urtica dioica, common nettle. - The summit is a large heap only of loose whitish freestone, and slightly covered with these and other vegetables."
" The temparature of the water of the Gentleman's Well, which is only a few yards below the summit of the hill, is nearly the same in February and in July, viz. between 45 ° and 36 °."
The writer adds -" The most delightful sight, the most noble spectacle I ever saw, was the sun rising, when I was on the summit of Cross Fell, on the 18th day of June: it is infinitely grander than a setting sun.
" The helm-wind which has before been mentioned, and which frequently affects this tract of mountains, nearly forty miles in extent, is now to be considered. These heights are supposed to affect the weather in a manner somewhat similar to what the inahbitants of the Malabar and Coromandel coasts experience; and what are called in this country shedding-winds, generally blow on the contrary sides of Cross Fell, from oppote quarters to the helm-winds; and the storms which rake the country on one side of the mountain, seldom affect the other. Upon the summits of this lofty ridge of mountains there frequently hangs a vast volume of clouds, in a sullen and drowsy state, having little movement. This heavy collection of vapours often extends several miles in length, and dips itself from the summit half - way down to the base of those eminences; and frequently at the same time the other mountains in view are clear of mist, and shew no signs of rain. This helm, or cloud, exhibits an awful and solemn appearance, tinged with white by the sun's rays that strike the upper parts, and sreads a gloom below, over the inferior parts of the mountains, like the shadows of night. When this collection of vapour first begins to gather upon the hills, there is to be observed hanging about it a black strip of cloud, continually flying off, and fed from the white part, which is the real helm. This strip is called the helm-bar, as, during its appearance, the winds are thought to be resisted by it; for, on its dispersion, they rage vehemently upon the valleys beneath. The direction of the helm-bar is parallel to that part of the main cloud, or collection of vapour, that is tinged with white by being struck with the suns rays; the bar appears in continual agitation, as boiling or struggling with contrary blasts; whilst the helm all this time keeps a motionless station. When the bar is dispersed, the winds that issue from the helm are sometimes extremely violent; but that force seems to be in proportion to the real current of the winds which blow at a distance from the mountains, and which are frequently in a contrary direction, and then the helm-wind does not extend above two or three miles; without those impediments it seldom sweeps over a larger tract than twelve miles, perhaps from the mere resistance of the lower atmosphere. It is remarkable, that at the base of the mountain the blasts are much less violent than in the middle region; and yet the hurricane is sometimes impetuous even there, bearing everything before it, when at the distance of a few miles there is a dead calm and a sunny sky. The spring is most favourable to this phenomenon, the helm-wind will sometimes blow for a fortnight, till the air in the lower egions, warmed before by the influence of the sun, is thereby rendered piercing cold.
" Mr. Ritson, that extraordinary genius, who wrote the introduction to Clarke's Survey to the Lakes, thus speaks of this helm-wind -' The helm-wind is generated in that enormous cloud, which, like a helmet, covers the summit of Cross Fell. It is there particularly favoured by circumstances; for on one side there is a plain of about thirty miles in breadth in some places; and on the other no hills to rival that from whence it comes. This wind is not much taken notice of in natural history; yet the Dutch, by the iron chains with which they are obliged to moor their ships at the Cape of Good Hope, bear ample testimony to the fury of such a one. It hath been met with by the late voyagers in the South Seas; it is said to have been felt in the Straits of Gibralter; and I doubt not that mariners and travellers have found it in many other places, though they may not have observed it with care, or may have given it different names.'
" Mr Richardson remarks -' That in the vicinity of these mountains the air is generally very clear and healthy, owing perhaps to the violent helm-winds in the months of December, January, Febuary, March, and April; but the inahbitants of the countries immediately influenced by that wind are more subject to rheumatic complaints than those at a greater distance. The summit of Cross fell, and the regions a little lower, are sometimes clear when the vale is covered with a fog. I have been upon the mountain when that has happened, and the spectacle is curious, as the clouds appear firm, though uneven, like a boisterous disturbed ocean. All distant sounds are at that time heard distinctly, and strike the ear in a very singular manner, as they seem to sssue under your feet. As to the helm, the cloud does not always rest on the tops of the hlls, but is sometimes several degrees higher, and does not always preserve a regular form; neither is there always a helm-bar, for that phenomenon only appears when the wind, at a little distance, blows from the west. I have sometimes observed four or five of these helm-bars within five miles of the hills, and then the wind blew irregularly, sometimes from the east, and sometimes from the west. It appears to me that the same kind of phenomenon as that at the Cape of Good Hope, described by Sparman. When the snow appears upon the hills, the winds then blow with great violence. Swinburn, I think, mentions something similar in Sicily, and Volney at Alexandria. May it not be accounted for by the air being considerably colder on the summit of those hulls, than in the country whither it rushes with so much violence? I have found by a thermometer, that it is 14 ° colder on the top of Cross Fell than at the bottom; indeed I did but prove that once, but three or four times I found it 12 °, and frequently 10 °.

