

Saint Herbert's Isle: A Legendary Poem; In Five Cantos. With Some Smaller Pieces. By The Late John Bree, Esq. Of Emerald, Near Keswick. 
To love, thou blam me not; for love, thou say, Leads up to heaven-- is both the way and guide.  Paradise Lost. B. 8. L. 612.
London: Printed For 
Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, And Longman.
1832. 
Dedicated To Mrs. Grigby, Of Drinkston, Suffolk; 
In Acknowledgment Of The Sincerest Esteem, The Warmest Affection, And The Most Heartfelt Gratitude For Inumerable Instances Of Friendship And Kindness,
By The Author's Surviving Family. 
Prefatory Sonnet.

Oh thou! who now twice ten revolving years The bond connubial with me hast shared; Nor yet by time the torch of love impaired, Though fortune's shafts assailed, and sorrow's tears, To thee, my muse this tardy offering rears! Nor wilt thou scorn the fitful tale I build; Since not the lust of empty fame has willed, But thou alone the lay thy smile endears. Whatever of truth's and virtue's charms it brings; Of love's devotion-- still with peril fraught; Of duty's strife; of heart-born piety, Be thine the meed-- for it but feebly flings On fiction's canvas what from life was caught, When I from memory drew, or raptured gazed on thee.
Saint Herbert's Isle.

I. In days gone by, as ancient legends tell, In Cumbria's mountain-land remotely stood A reverend Hall, embosomed in deep wood, And overhung by many a shaggy fell; In Goldrill's waters was the mansion seen On rock inverted, by the admiring eye, Its grey walls striving with the mountain green, Its blue smoke curling in the downward sky, Blending each purple cloud, that lightly flitted by.
Ii. Around, huge mountains were in grandeur piled, From which descended many a silver rill, Working its angry way from hill to hill; Now hid by darkling cliff, or coppice wild; Now joyous sparkling in the solar beam, Stirring with murmurs sweet the lazy air, Till lulled below in Goldrill's tranquil stream, It gladly seemed to lose its mountain care, And to the distant lake, in pastoral pomp repair.
Iii. A little garden left to nature's hand Just shored the river in its broomy pride, And many a lovely flower with petal wide Hung wildly waving over the gravelly strand. No art the part with tortuous neatness led, But nature here her old dominion swayed; She the grey rock with briar and bilberry spread, She the wild bee in crystal cells delayed, And with the region kite and twittering halcyon played.
Iv. No traveller came down Kirkstone's lonely road Into the bosom of this sweet retreat, Who did not frequent in his mind repeat The wish that Hartsip were his own abode;-- Here sure is peace, and innocence dwells here, A blest retreat from sorrow and from care, The world shut out and of its ill no fear,-- Here might an Anchorite his soul prepare, And life's autumnal eve in blest seclusion wear.
V. And here did Alwine at the close of life That wish enjoy,-- Alwine, whose arm of might So oft had triumphed in the dubious fight When Pict or Pagan Dane maintained the strife;-- Time now had added to his blood stained page Twice seven summers of beguiling peace, Bernicia smiled to see her golden age, To see fell war and ruthless rapine cease, And over her heathery bosom herds and flocks increase.
Vi. ' T were well exchanged for madding fields of woe, For ghostly groans of death and gashes deep,-- Though warriors triumph, yet must nature weep That all we love or value thence should flow;-- Long may those walls the rust-grown hauberk grace, The lumbering battle-axe and long-drawn spear, The goad-like shield, the huge and ponderous mace For sacred hands, the scythe-shaped sword, and never Again on Anglia's plains in banded ranks appear.
Vii. Oh Peace, thy home is on the shelvy steep! The frost-work palace of an April night! A vapour flickering in the dubious light On mountain ridges hung, or over the deep!-- Awhile we gaze and hallow thee with eyes That court thy presence with dissembling smile, Till the wild whirl of human passions rise, Ambition's quenchless orb,-- and fear, and guile, And selfish avarice that seeks its prize On ocean's shoreless storms, or where the vulture flies.
Viii. Now blooms the olive green, the ivy curls In pendent masses round thy battled towers, Hartsip! now jocundly must move the hours, War, baneful war, her white-horsed banner furls-- Ah me! not so-- scarce in his peaceful nest My legend tells, and I with pain relate, Domestic ills on Alwine's fortunes prest: Two sons when bathing closed their early date-- One plunged to aid, alas! but shared his brother's fate.
Ix. As" Brothers' - Water" still that pool is known; There tangled juniper and yew trees gloom,' Neath which the shade-struck violet loves to bloom, And wondrous flowers by unseen hands are strewn; And airy shapes at twilight dim are seen By hinds belated on their homeward way, Amidst the oozy flags, and rushes green, That choke the margin of that fearful bay, Where stunted pines impend over rocks of sorrowing grey.
X. Nor, Reason, thou their simple faith deride! The bankrupt mind to this delusion clings, That round its penury an halo flings Through which thy doubtful lights but feebly glide;' T is the philosophy of untaught minds!-- Their poetry!-- Religion's second stay!-- Mysterious cement, that unconscious binds Their earthly hopes!-- a half celestial ray To light, and cheer their steps, on their bewildered way!
Xi. And sorrow now on Alwine fixed her fangs, His pride, his hopes, in one sad hour destroyed; Toil chafed his slackened nerve, amusement cloyed, And Time with flagging wing over Hartsip hangs, Shedding his silent snow on that calm brow That once the phalanx with its rage could awe! But for the foe that he must combat now, It was the last!-- and he rejoicing saw That to that fearless fight, his course did quickly draw.
Xii. Yet not of all bereft,-- one still remained, The flower and solace of his fleeting days,-- One daughter, on whose infancy to gaze Was his delight-- her tender smile enchained His aged breast,-- it was a gleam that came Of other days, revisiting once more With stirring influence his inward frame,--' T was that sweet smile with which her mother bore The fatal dart whose stroke he ceased not to deplore.
Xiii. ' T was that sweet smile she wore when early love First gave her blooming to his manly arms, In all her pride and affluence of charms As morning fresh, mild as the nestling dove; And he in melancholy mood would dwell On all that memory brought, nor wish to break The mingling tides that in his breast would swell Of joy and grief, but would of choice betake To that sweet troublous sea, and slumbering visions wake.
Xiv. And Evelyn within these shades had drawn The breath of infancy, and had become A part of them,--'t was her delight to roam The mountain's rugged side at early dawn, To catch the spirit of the dewy air Ere yet the morning vapours broke away, Or prowling fox had sought his wonted lair-- She loved to listen to the woodlark's lay, That from her leafy bower welcomed the coming day.
XV. Start not, fair inmates of the pampered street! Nor deem my lay romance-- such things have been, Nay, on those very rocks these eyes have seen The loveliest forms the rising sun could meet, Standing like visions of unearthly mould, Or priestesses, the temple to unlock Of nature, seizing with their pencils bold The evanescent hues and forms that flock, At that inspiring hour, their heavenly art to mock.
Xvi. And Evelyn would watch with feeling eye Those fleeting graces, till perchance she caught Some form with taste's ideal magic fraught, Or hue that wantoned in the orient sky;-- Or as the glorious sun, emerging slow From his deep Alpine couch, first touched with light The far-off summits, would her bosom glow With kindred warmth,-- Oh luxury of sight! The only sensual fruit that does not pall or blight.
Xvii. And she the solemn breadth would mark of shade That wrapt the vale below, and grouped grove-- Whose dewy boughs in light reflected strove-- In tender, soft, aerial hues arranged; Or gleam of light some hidden glen let in, Or thread of silver waters rippling near, Seen through their parted boles and leaflets thin In sweet relief-- and Ulpha's distant mere, And mists that rise and float over her Elysian sphere.
Xviii. But when the solar fires had filled the vale With one monotonous, unchequered glare, She to the covert's labyrinth would repair, And sing in wildest strain some touching tale Of love's deep wrongs in plaintive ballad strung; For nature then had undisputed sway, And lyre and song to her their incense flung, Unpolished, unrefined, energic, gay; Feeling's untutored soul, and passion's sweetest play!
Xix. It might be, recreations such as these Over Evelyn's dawning charms an influence threw; Her cheeks were rubied with the rose's hue, And braced her fibre by the mountain breeze; There was a wildness in her sweetest look That touched the heart, a silence in her eye-- So all pathetic that it never forsook The memory it once beguiled-- a sigh Her bosom heaved, that either India's wealth might cheaply buy.
XX. She moved, and Grace was on the earth once more, Such as was wont in Scio's isle of old Its sway over bosoms deemed divine to hold, Or favoured Delos' now deserted shore; Yet thine, oh Nature! was the unconscious charm, As though some spell her lovely limbs obeyed-- So delicately wild!-- so chastely warm!-- Motion's true mean, where all excess was stayed, And all the glow of youth's aetherial ardour played:
Xxi. Thou wert the talisman that ruled the whole, That from the dewy lip its music drew; Thou gavest the eye its glance of heavenly blue, And wert of matchless symmetry the soul;-- Nor art nor fashion then had thee dethroned; Free was the tongue to speak, the limb to move, The hardy Thane thy genial sceptre owned, The virgin sought thee in thy sacred grove, And joyed to view thy face, and loved thy heaths to rove.
Xxii. A knoll there was down Hartsip's sloping lawn, Round which the waves of Goldrill glided slow; Young hazels decked its head, and alders low, Whose mingling boughs over broomy seats were drawn-- A sylvan arbour, sacred to repose; A spot where grief might sweet oblivion find, Where love might cherish its delicious woes, Or generous friendship, daring to be kind, Taste the best joy on earth, and mingle mind with mind.
Xxiii. There, to the roving eye was sweetly spread Full many a forest-group of varying hue That down the waving meads their shadows threw, And to remotest lawns the vision led: The glossy oak, eneath whose umbrageous shade The sated herd now ruminating lies; The pine majestic, monarch of the glade, That lifts its dark head nearest to the skies, Whose rind is laid with gold, whose verdure never dies.
Xxiv. There too the sycamore of gorgeous growth, A noble foil for lighter trees, was seen,-- The tender ash, of soft and dewy green,-- And elm of spiral spray, that rivals both;-- The Lombard poplar, which, when sunbeams parch The sultry plain, imparts a cooler gleam,-- The graceful birch,-- the ever-formal larch,-- The willow pranked in its own silver beam, Whose drooping fillets chafed the dark, untroubled stream.
XXV. And oh!'t was joy to Evelyn's gentle mind At eve to linger on this lovely rock, To mark the vale-hind ted the ripened shock, And through the grassy lanes the rich team wind--' T was joy the vale's wild minstrelsy to hear Beyond the measured tones of loftiest art, The far-off lowings of the parted steer, The cushat's murmuring that would never part, The milk-maid's well known theme, love's sweet and cureless smart.
Xxvi. And she alone had sought this loved retreat, And on the river's brink now pensive stood Bending to view the tenants of the flood As they disported fearless at her feet;-- The merry hay-month gone, now August threw Her golden mantle over every plain; The sweet birds caroled where the roses grew, And nature, held in one harmonious chain, But paused as sung the maid this sympathetic strain.
1. " Ah! why do they tell me of Eferwyc's halls; And the Ouse which so proudly encircles the walls That Briton, and Roman, and Saxon, and Dane Have tinged with their blood its deep waves to the main? Of the gates gilt with gold, and the towering fane? -- Ah! dearer to me is my sweet native vale, And the woods and the waters of green Patterdale. I love the dark mountains that cradle my home, And the brown shaggy heath where the honey-bees roam, And the birch-curtained glens where the water-falls foam.
2. " Ah! why do they tell me of Laffords so great, Of Ealderman, Etheling, and Cyning of state? Of hunters through Galtre's green forest that rove, Of warriors whose fame all Deira can prove? Of Cnihts, and of Thegns that would die for my love? Of Edwy I think, and of Elgiva's fate, And sigh not for greatness, and sigh not for state. Let me breathe the sweet gale that down Helvelyn goes, And the amarant pluck from its crater of snows; But love comes not here to disturb our repose."
Xxvii. Ah fatal words! the lambs no longer bleat, The feathered choristers their songs suspend, The trout to their deep-seated haunts descend, And all the shore the angry surges beat: Alas! Love vindicates his slighted sway, And fainter now the maiden's shrieks return; The unpitying stream elated rolls away, Her lovely limbs are on its bosom borne, And by the impending boughs her auburn tresses torn.
Xxviii. And where was aged Alwine? Bertha, where? -- Already breathless to the shore they press,-- One frantic glance of exquisite distress, One helpless shriek of sympathy they share; But younger arms were combating the wave, And Alwine's aged eyes with hope were wild,-- On, generous stranger! on! my Evelyn save, And for your guerdon take my darling child,-- Who on this bank my living child shall fling, His morgan-gift to her to-morrow's morn may bring.
Xxix. And on the bank the breathing maid is laid; In sweet disorder flushed her quivering cheek;-- In vain she tried of gratitude to speak--" Bear, bear me hence, my Bertha, quick!" she said," More fitting time may come"-- she paused again--" Leave all to me," said Alwin--" stranger, stay-- Who art thou, noble youth? our hearts would fain Their deep, deep debts of gratitude repay."--" Tis done!" the youth replied, then sought his homeward way.
XXX. And now over Evelyn's couch does Alwine bend With all a father's care: one gentle look Of tender recognition soon they took,-- One silent prayer to heaven of thanks they send. " But thou art feverish, my child," he cried," What means upon thy cheek that hectic glow? Why does it mantle now, and now subside? The leech must straightway come-- myself will go." " Not so, my honoured sire," she cried," I pray, not so.
Xxxi. " Me leave to Bertha's care; for best she knows What meetest is these shattered nerves to heal. But oh, my father! more for you I feel, Your frame exhausted, needs, I see, repose." Her snowy hand she smilingly held out, Which to his heart he tremulously prest, Then to Saint Cuthbert breathed a prayer devout, Then his beloved child once more caressed, And sought with long adieus, his own much needed rest.
Xxxii. On Evelyn's lids that night no sleep came down, Her harassed thoughts a thousand fancies fed; That waking dream stood pictured by her bed Whose busy imagery she might not shun;-- A restless conflict in her bosom strove Of feelings strange, that ceased not to intrude; Pride by her wounds did her sad presence prove, And Shame, till now unfelt, did inly brood, And held with gentle Truth a never-ending feud.
Xxxiii. Meanwhile all restless Bertha's tongue had been, Unused to check since her good lady's day, Much playful satire had the Crone they say, Though wanting point and wiry-edged, I ween; The soothing anodyne for pain she brought Though none was felt! morat high spiced and hot, And ropy mead the incipient fever sought, Nor was the heavenly opiate forgot, Maugre her wakeful tongue, whose movements ceased not.
Xxxiv. Old matrons then were garrulous,'t is said, And much esteemed were in lordly hall, They were the living chronicles of all, And ruled the roast, and wines and wassails made; When mute the harp nor wandering crowder near To raise the loftier theme, the burly thane Did not such rantipoles refuse to hear, But oft in lady-bower would long remain Well pleased the gossip's tale with pigment rich to drain.
XXXV. And much it grieves me history is mute On such affairs as these; her partial page With blood and crimes so rife, of matters sage By ancient dames achieved is destitute, Or I would Bertha's long lost fame restore, And her enduring eloquence display; Tell how thy household, Hartsip! would hang over Her breathless tales of ghost, or midnight fay And Woden's frightful rites, ere dawned the Christian day.
Xxxvi. But her importance long has passed away-- And gone are they who listened to her lore! The roofs are sunk-- outworn the marble floor By Time's damp dreary feet! nor buttress grey Nor toppling battlement may now be seen To mark the spot where barons rude did ban, And hearts that kindness bound did once convene! But Goldrill's waters run were then they ran, And Hartsip's fields remain for fancy's airy plan.
Xxxvii. Nor may I tell how long the affrighted maid Bemoaned her sad mishap on pallet stretched My muse from ancient chronicle has fetched No such detail,-- for there alone,'t is said, She to her sylvan bower did still repair, But with more caution to those treacherous boughs Her lovely frame did trust; nor ever there Was heard again' gainst love those vocal vows, That nature's whole domain so late did seem to rouse.Saint Herbert's Isle.

I. There is a path on Hebrus where the sun Shines with its sweetest light, and gifted lyres, Urge the slow stream with their seraphic fires; A path no tuneful bard may blameless shun. Oh woman's loveliness! in vain the morn Gemmed with her lucid dews, or glittering eve, Or linnet warbling on the lonely thorn The strain invite! Dost thou, Enchantress, weave Thy spell? -- with these the Muse must joy, with thee must grieve!
Ii. Eden without thee but a garden smiled; When thou cam forth, then Paradise began; Man's sweetest tears through thee perchance have ran, But all his sorrows have thy charms beguiled. In the world's infancy thy empire rose! Dark ages glimmer but in lights of thine! Infatuated Time below thee mows, Or won to rapture by thy looks divine, Leaves thee on beacon-heights down his prone stream to shine!
Iii. Born of some loftier star, thy earthly frame Renews as nearer seen, and burns more bright! Thou art of this lone sphere redeeming light, That shines to heaven again, whence first it came! Of thee the historic page delighted tells,-- Without thee soon the puly drama dies,-- On thee sweet Poesy for ever dwells, To inspiration kindles at thy eyes, And stirs" the joy of grief" even with thy saddest sighs.
Iv. Now Evelyn's cheek a lovelier bloom regains, Such as the damask rose at opening hour, When virgin freshness meets the summer shower, Wins of the gentle outrage it sustains; But yet at times a paler hue was there, And her cerulean eye dejection wore, As though some gentle grief, or vagrant care, Had made its nest within her bosom's core, And might not banished be, in hall or secret bower.
V. Companionship she shunned, and heedless strayed, To meditate alone in neighbouring dell; Vainly she sought that restlessness to quell Which solitude has nursed but never allayed;-- Alas! she knew not to destroy the blight That on life's blossom now began to prey, Or knowing, bore it in her own despite, As though she would her own sweet peace forelay, Nor wished the insidious canker's silent steps to stay.
Vi. For there was luxury in what she felt-- So new, so undefined, that it did seem To stir the stillness of life's stagnant stream With no unwelcome ruffle; still it dealt Some deep vibrations, that at times went near To wreck her slender venture on its shore-- And so unceasingly did hope and fear, And joy and woe, her spirit raise and lower, That peace with dove-like wing, from her aloft did soar.
Vii. She did most seem, at length, what she was least-- A being severed from the living chain, With nerve discordant to the bliss, the pain Of all around-- sick of life's tasteless feast!-- Not so, but not in harmony with it, She sought the concord of the silent steep, Till the wild glede would round her wail and flit, Or wolf-cub bay the yet unfolded sheep, Or callow eaglet scream from its high-roosted keep.
Viii. And now had Hesper shed his dubious ray On such as lingered for that gentle beam, And Mithra westward driven his golden team, Leading to distant lands the by-gone day, When Evelyn sought her own paternal home, By winding paths accustomed to her feet, And now along the river's brink they roam, When lo! her startled ear, in cadence sweet, These not mysterious strains did musically greet.
1 Sweet Goldrill! to thee now my bosom is plighted, Thy waters shall rival the proudest in fame; Henceforth on thy banks I will wander delighted, And weary their echoes with Evelyn's name.
2 Before me for ever now roam thy dark eddies, Over which the sweet lambs in their innocence browse, There still does the mountain ash dip its red berries, And beauty entwines her white arms in its boughs;
3 But could the soft image from memory depart, One spell must remain that no time can revoke-- That ineffable look, that felt warm on my heart, When her soul spoke in silence, nor knew that it spoke;
4 Ah! still to the lake's peaceful border repair, Mid the chant of the bulfinch and bourn-loving bee; All, all your delights, let your Evelyn share, But touch her soft bosom to love and to me.
Ix. As one that stands upon a field of ice That round him melts with slow-returning heat, So stood the astonished maid, with chained feet! Thrice did she forward step-- and paused thrice-- A tremor manacles her faltering limbs-- The sun's departed glow was not so bright As that which over her cheek and bosom skims--" Descend," she cried," ye friendly shades of night, Hide me from all I see, from all that sees the light."
X." And why," said Edwal," should Northumbria's pride, The loveliest blossom her bleak wilds can boast, Whose fame has reached to her remotest coast; Ah! why should Evelyn seek her charms to hide? -- The lowly weed the matted thorn conceals, The bloomless moss in dripping chinks delights, But sun-smote sward the jessamine reveals, Its love on breezy crag the woodbine plights, And sweet rock roses hang from light and airy heights."
Xi. " Sir Knight, your pardon!-- I would homeward haste, A father chides ere this my long delay-- Night falls apace, and lonely is the way; Forbear this ill-timed courtesy to waste On one"-- she paused-- the graceful youth replied" Oh Lady Evelyn! dismiss your fear, No harm can ever come where you abide; If to those eyes intrusion this appear, Those eyes are well revenged if anger's glance they wear.
Xii. " Stranger! no more"-- with temper, cried the maid," To Evelyn of Hartsip now you speak-- Who taught you her approving ear to seek With idle flattery? -- no more she said, But onward hurried with indignant feet, Nor backward looked, till by the pale moon light She gained the wicket of that loved retreat Where dwelt her honoured sire; but oh, the spite Of fate!-- no rest did Evelyn get on that sad night.
Xiii. And she with bitter thoughts did task her scorn, Seeking from whence it sprang with ceaseless care: And now she thought it was of pride the heir, And now that it, of prudery was born-- But sure she was it was of spurious breed, For all ungentle to her eye it seemed; Nor in its features favour could she read Of justice, goodness, or of aught that gleamed Of generous gratitude, alas! not yet redeemed.
Xiv. And sure if flattery but ill might stay Her homeward steps, to gratitude was due One moment's pause, and she did deeply rue The hour gone by its onerous debt to pay-- Her very life was Edwal's!-- whose her heart? This-- this she durst not ask, but busy thought Would act her wakeful and revengeful part; Lost was the moment she so lately sought, But doubled all the cares that anxious moment brought.
XV. It might be, Edwal would not brook the slight-- He noble seemed, and born to bear, not bend; To other lands perchance his steps might wend-- Some gentler bosom might his love requite: His pensive eye and pallid cheek she sees, That love's inimitable impress bore, The look, the spirit breathes, when boundless seas Give for its place of rest but one fond shore, And that with darkness girds, where waves eternal roar.
Xvi. Or he might court love's unpropitious stream, Unmindful of its shoals and quicksands deep, And striving' gainst its headlong course to keep His vital ardour chill, nor more redeem-- And is it he, that would have died for her? Through whom alone( save heaven) she walks and breathes? Hail nobler thoughts! that now within her stir-- Hail the unfading chaplet Virtue wreathes! And love, though tardy, now to gratitude bequeaths.
Xvii. ' T is done!-- the fate of Evelyn is sealed! Her father's closet then she quickly sought, And to him all she felt, and all she thought, In filial piety and love revealed. " My child," he cried," from me the youth but strayed When late he sought thee in the neighbouring grove, Thy sire rejoiced his hasty lips had made No offering tardy Prudence might reprove, Rejoiced to find young Edwal worthy of thy love."
Xviii. And open flew the door, and he was there Whom last she saw beside the bubbling brook; One feeble shriek she gave-- one tender look-- And" oh! my father, why? why not prepare?" But Alwine waits not for the due reproof-- Again the door is closed, nor knows the muse How long the lovely maid did stand aloof-- How long she did love's deep revenge abuse, Or thy rejected homage, Flattery! refuse.
Xix. But legends say-- that love on summer wing Did round the blissful bowers of Hartsip play, Fanning the enchanted hours the live long day That did no respite to his labours bring,-- Each stony grot and dingle deep can tell Of his sweet mysteries-- the very heath Where he has trodden, bears an oderous smell-- His voice to every rill did he bequeath-- His breath on every shrub, and every flower did breathe.
XX. Where silver floods over nature's lap are spread, And mountains heave in undulating flow; Where woods on dizzy heights luxuriant grow, And man's intrusive feet but seldom tread, There is his earthly cradle-- there his throne-- The bees, the birds that aye inhabit there Are his purveyors-- caverns dark and lone His active being nurse--" the peopled air," And all that live and move, his boundless sceptre share.
Xxi. Where stirs the forest bough his haunt is there, His hall is nature's canopy of blue, His rich saloon the leafy avenue, The moss, his carpet, and the rock his chair-- The strength and beauty of the soaring pine, The sycamore's embossed and sunless bough, The birch's grace and elegance divine With secret power, his wizard wand endow, And stay his timorous feet, and prompt his changeless vow.
Xxii. Now linger long ye rapture-burdened hours, For on your joyous tops is true love borne, Light as the gossamer that April's morn Floats over the fragrant heads of new-born flowers, And kiss the purple path of life's sweet spring, Where youth and loveliness delay, and try To win fresh joys of your enamoured wing-- Oh linger yet!-- nor put sweet seasons by That come perchance but once, perchance too soon must fly.
Xxiii. And now the nuptial board in hall is reared, And with the banquet groans,-- the noble guests In order sit, as dignity invests, Or kindred tie, or age not less revered;-- Nor England's crownless king disdained a place At Evelyn's marriage rite-- he who,'t is said, On Dee eight monarchs rowed, he graced the dais To give the enraptured youth the blooming maid, Nor was the royal dower and benison delayed.
Xxiv. Next sat one more than king-- of manners sleek And purpose stern-- kings had he crossed before, And now a barren sceptre Edgar wore--' T was Dunstan, Glastonbury's abbot meek; Next him the primate, the consenting tool Of Somersetshire's saint, and Odo called, Who whilom did the burning iron cool In beauty's lovely cheek, gorgeously palled, The youthful lovers he, in nuptial bonds enthralled.
XXV. Osulf was there, Northumbria's first earl, By whose foul treachery the fight was lost, Which Yric and five brother monarchs cost Their hard-sold lives-- and he of Mathraval, Of the old Cymnry paradise the stay-- And Duphus, Scotland's heir, of Argoed now, Regal no more since Wyburn's fatal day! Three score of valiant chiefs did also bow In beauty's train, and testify her bridal vow.
Xxvi. And there were lesser stars of loveliness, Though each a sun might be in its own sphere, For Evelyn this night has no compeer, But she least conscious of what all confess-- Her bridal maids, twin flowers of Mercia were, Of Whiglafe's royal stem, for charms renowned, So like in lineament, in voice, and air, You each for other might mistake, but round The ivory arm of one, a golden beage was bound.
Xxvii. And golden head-bands hold their flaxen hair, And rubied carcanets their bosoms deck, And over a kirtle pale from each fair neck A flowing robe descends of silk and vair, Of crimson rich, with gold embossed and shelled-- Between them silent sat, the blue-eyed bride, One pearl her robe of virgin whiteness held, No art her cheek the absent rose supplied, The lily lingered there, but with no rose it vied.
Xxviii. Only some anxious thought at times would rise, With sudden tumult of the spirits fraught, That over her marble cheek and bosom wrought A quick suffusion, that as quickly flies-- Adieu, adieu! my fond paternal home Of love's uncertain happiness the price, Adieu domestic ties, from you I roam To seek the guerdon of my sacrifice-- To love I offer all-- an earthly paradise!
Xxix. But one was watchful of that coming care: There is a sympathy in lovers' looks, That speaks more fluently than words or books, As though the spirits met and blended were; Hence broke the light and half - formed cloud away At Edwal's glance, and sunny smiles again Did round the mind's horizon sweetly play, Giving assurance of its banished pain, And its devotedness to love's unyielding chain.
XXX. The nuptials solemnized, the royal train To Bamborough's regal keep its progress made, The day on Dacre's towers begins to fade, As its grey walls the halting cortege gain. From Hartsip's festive scene the guests are gone, The noisy wassailer has sunk to rest-- The grizzly wolf-hound listens on the lawn-- The Gleeman's joke has ceased, the Buffa's jest, And round his neck once more the Crowder flings his wrest.
Xxxi. The moon is up, and through the blue serene Holds on her gentle march; the stedfast stars Pour down their lesser lights-- and earthly jars, And human cares are still!-- with looks amaene And beautiful, all Nature smiles; naught moves In heaven's vast rondure of enduring blue, Save the dun bat that thrids its favourite groves, Or moth that over the watery avenue Does its destruction sure, on circling wing pursue!
Xxxii. But who is he upon the scene that breaks, With hurried step and clasped hands elate, With looks beseeching, wild and desolate? Along the willowed path his course he takes As one bestraught with some consuming care; He hastens on, nor with reverted eyes, One moment pondering, does he soothe despair; But still to' scape some whelming sorrow tries, Startling the ear of night with his distempered sighs.
Xxxiii. ' T is Edwal, from the pinnacle of bliss Down hurled! he whom the setting sun had seen The envied lord of love's and beauty's queen, Now plunged in woe's grim, bottomless abyss; His soul no more the sounding branches sooth, Or waters rippling in the lunar ray-- Or groves of juniper in glens uncouth-- Or bosky screens, that down the marshes lay, Or silver falls of light, that over the mountains play.
Xxxiv. He hears no more night's bosom-soothing hum Flung from a thousand rills that round him pour, Nor mystic murmurs of the woodlands hoar That from their churming inmates ceaseless come; His eyes are inward turned-- his bosom boils With labouring thoughts that have, alas! no vent, Some recent anguish round his memory coils, His reason wavers, and his heart is rent-- He hurries madly home-- his nuptial hours are spent!
XXXV. Unhappy Evelyn!-- thy lot is cast, Maid, bride, and widow, in one treacherous day! Nor hope to thee holds out one cheering ray; Thy breast entombs the mystery of the past-- Thy bridal chamber is the ark of love, Thy fate the covenant, thy vow the seal; Thy Edwal's honour is with thine inwove, No sympathy thy bosom grief may heal, No ear may list thy woe!-- no tongue that woe reveal!Saint Herbert's Isle

I. Now wakes the dewy morn on Casticand, And drives over Skiddaw's dripping eves the night, The sun looks downward with a paling light, And weeping mists on Gowbarrow's thickets stand; No golden battlements resplendent shine In heaven's unbroken vault of sober grey-- All nature seems in sadness to combine, To lead upon the world the sorrowing day, That comes on Edwal's heart without one joyous ray.
Ii. As sorrow presses on his heart, his mind Elastic springs; touched by woe's withering hand The loftier feelings of his soul expand, And mystic musings mingle with the wind. No vulgar toy, to Edwal, was the lyre The lingering day to waste, or strike for fame, In boyhood's ardent hour he caught the fire That nature kindles in the damps of shame, Yet fans with her sweet breath, till all the soul is flame.
Iii. He was a wanderer in the glooms of feeling! His mind a wilderness of dangerous ways, A cherished fever that ou reason preys, A quick disease that mocked the power of healing! Oft would his breast with throbs tumultuous heave, Unknown the cause to those he held most dear; Oft at the hour of rest, he home would leave, And linger lonely on the neighbouring mere, Emotion's hapless child! t' indulge the unbidden tear.
Iv. To him the mountain solitude was wealth! Its murmuring habitants a social race! A virgin book the landscape's slighted face! The woods magnificence! the waters health!-- With these his spirit held, and lived, and grew, As though its purpose, being, end were there, A deep enchantment that around him threw Its fatal spell!-- blame not, ye sons of care, His is a fated course whom these delights ensnare.
V. To rove betimes upon the dew-sprent heath, To watch the weary sun's last lingering beam, To ponder lonely on the hazy stream, And mark the sportive race that glide beneath; To skirt the forest when the moon was high, And peaceful night her downy wings had spread, What time from out the rustling by-path nigh The hare unscared, her timid leverets led, To him were pampering joys that sweetest fancies fed.
Vi. Then did his soul a purer vision borrow, And sure not earthly was that holy light! Something was there, that might not meet the sight, Something, with rapture touched the chords of sorrow! The warbling nightingale from her lone dell, The distant fall, the owl's discordant note, The gale's last sigh that on the foliage fell, To him were sounds with sweetest music fraught, Such as in Eden once, on every breeze was brought.
Vii. And now he views an Eden once his own, From high Dunmallet's coronet of rock, But love's delicious fields now only mock His gentle spirit with a bliss that's flown;" And Evelyn lives, but lives no more for me! Oh heaven!" he frantic cries," and is it so? Close, close thou yawning gulf, it must not be-- Oh shame! till now I never felt thy glow; Oh dark, unutterable thoughts! oh depth of woe!"
Viii. " Why was I borne on pleasure's boundless sea, Thus in the haven to be wrecked at last? In one short moment came the bitter blast That blights the bloom of love's celestial tree, And leaves me desolate and void of hope. Oh! I have basked on joy's high pyramid, Spendthrift of luscious hours! till down the slope The envious Fates prepared, my feet have slid, And all return is now to me, alas! forbid.
Ix. " Yet still I breathe in passion's wilderness, Scorched by its fiercest fires; nor may I pluck Its wan, and withered flowers! the flash that struck Has not consumed, nor will forgetfulness Its opiate bring! I live to bitter pangs, And bear a secret wound no time can heal, But blindly court the ever-restless fangs Of solitary hours, setting a silent seal On my sad fate, too ponderous for fortune's wheel!
X. But I can bear, so that I bear alone In nature's wilds, and mix my spirit there; There's friendship in the lurid lightning's glare To hearts so touched as mine, so lost and lone! Despair beside me sits, a wasted form, With eyes immovable, and heart of lead, His feeble arms swing in the misty storm, He sees no daemon at the mountain head, Nor hears the mighty waters roaring over their bed!
Xi. " Hope never comes but with a hideous power Of ghastly spectres at his restless heels! A sunny smile if born, a look congeals, And ere another, him the fiends devour; Religion lures me to her green alcove, My life blood freezes there! so through the night Did Scandinavia's fabled monsters rove In doleful darkness, strangers to delight, And marble masses grew, as waked the morning light."
Xii. Thus weeks and months elapsed, but Edwal knew No respite to the pangs of cureless love; Its roots, alas! were now so deeply wove In that congenial soil where first they grew, That to unloose them were a vain attempt; Unheard is reason's voice where true-love pleads, Even shame is stifled, and the world's contempt! Nor honour's sacred law, nor heaven's he heeds Whose breast the raging fire of early passion feeds!
Xiii. But deem ye not that he inglorious yields Without one struggle with the spell that binds, In many a conflict he his weakness finds And drops the weapons that in vain he wields; Through those delicious plains where once he roved Bewildered waters run with hurrying tide That now divide him from that form he loved, And must for ever from that form divide, Though each, for ever gaze on each, from side to side.
Xiv. This dreadful certainty his bosom filled With feelings new, and every well known scene Touched the sad chord of what he once had been, And what he was! and through him deeply thrilled, That he no more could list to nature's lyre, Dunmallet's purple rocks, and wind-swung pines, Or mighty oaks scathed by the lightning's fire-- These now he loathes, and longs for other shrines, Where anguish rest may find, or grief on hope reclines.
XV. He longed to be where dark Kovima creeps Round barren steppes, where glooms reluctant day, Where nature laughs not in her green array, But on her icy throne sublimely sleeps; There the Tungoo his daemon god adores As round his solitudes the tempest scowls, There never sings the snow-lark as she soars, But through the night the hungry stone-fox howls, And round the wanderer's tent the famished sea-wolf prowls.
Xvi. He longed to be where Ganges proudly pours In vast magnificence his fruitful urn, Where suns more fierce than raging Hecla burn, And stung with rage the savage panther roars: He loathed the tameness of his homely vale, Its lazy streams, and soft contented sky, But lent his spirit to each passing sail, And every vagrant breeze that hurrying by, Bore the grey rack of eve from his distempered eye.
Xvii. But from his native land ere he depart, The cradle and the tomb of every joy! Perchance it might his burdened spirits buoy, Could he to holy ears his griefs impart: In Derwent's lovely lake an isle there lay, Saint Herbert's once,( Saint Cuthbert's earthly friend), Whose prayer was heard, that one auspicious day The mortal ministry of both might end, For on one day did each to his green tomb descend!
Xviii. Twelve hundred winters now have rolled away Since there he dwelt, yet curious eyes may see Beneath the drip of many an aged tree The ruined cell, overgrown with lichens grey; But still the sacred isle is nature's care, She over his relics rears her myrtle bower And wears her richest robe of foliage there, No sound is heard but from the distant oar, And Derwent's silver waters rippling round the shore.
Xix. In Herbert's cell an aged seer then dwelt-- For long below the saint in peace had slept-- Who day and night his holy vigils kept, And at the hallowed shrine with reverence knelt; Not more for sanctity than wisdom famed. His lonely isle by erring feet was sought, He felt their grief ere yet that grief was named, And with a Christian's zeal, or comfort brought, Or how to bear their woe with soft persuasion taught;
XX. And meet it where that piety should dwell, Deep in this vale of waters, where secure From alien foes, she may herself inure, To combat those that in her breast rebel; Base envy, sordid avarice, and pride, And all the selfish and the sensual train Of inborn sin; these, there not long abide, Where with the works of God the heart communes, And in that key to Him, its adoration tunes.
Xxi. Where He has heaved the mountain chaos high He most is felt! sublimity sublimes! The peaceful lake with gentle bosoms chimes Where heaven's reflected image meets the eye; But isles that stud and decorate its breast, And solemn rocks, and canopies of shade, And misty mountains, that the storms infest, And round their hoary heads their tresses braid, These are devotion's temples! these her fervours aid!
Xxii. But lo! where Falcon's lofty cliffs repose Inverted deep amid the liquid space, And groves of pendent birch the margent grace, Slow from the shore a floating pinnace goes;' T is Edwal, who at length himself betakes To Wymond's cell, down is his gentle oar, The stately pinnace scarce the shadows breaks, Backed by the piny steeps of high Lodore, So light it glides, youed say, no sorrowing freight it bore.
Xxiii. And now behold it on its course midway, Leaving a lengthened line of light behind; A matted thorn whose roots its texture bind A sagum decks, in which the breeze might play, Should one be sporting on its watery way; But not one ripple does the surface break, Save where the May Fly ends its summer day, Or speckled trout, the monarch of the lake, Rises with frequent plunge its hapless prey to take.
Xxiv. And now beneath Saint Herbert's holy shrine The fragile bark is moored, the hermit hoar Has welcomed Edwal to his lonely bower, And thus besought him with a look benign;" So young, and withering under sorrow's blast!( For such alone come here), what guilty deed The morn of life has thus with clouds overcast? That conscience wars within I plainly read, But sinners crimson-stained, are by repentance freed."
XXV. " Oh, holy father!" then the youth replied," You rightly judge that sins have me beset, For who their wily snares did ever yet Unharmed elude? yet not of crimson dyed, I humbly trust, since that which deepest smites Did want my willing mind; yet do I sin! The poisoned cup is passed, but still invites! And I am kindled to a pitch within That it alone can slake, and thus my griefs begin.
Xxvi. " From them I fly, yet bear them in my breast! Shared but by one whose portion not divides, But doubles mine! religion here resides, Her aid I seek, but yet despair of rest,"" Despair!" cried Wymond,"' t is a coward bred Of earthly passions, and encounters not The appalling light our blessed creed has shed Over a benighted world; within this grot Unknown, her palsied figure shuns the sacred spot.
Xxvii. " Those scoffers who the precious Lamb reviled, And dealt the impious wounds, did not despair! From them their victim breathed his dying prayer-- Art thou more lost than they? more sin defiled? The heavy laden are most loudly called." " Father," the youth replied," all things I hope From heaven's beneficence, as yet ungalled By voluntary lapse of heinous scope, But in the earth's dark paths with grief I vainly cope.
Xxviii. " Then lend your reverend ear while I disclose Briefly the sorrow at my heart that sits, Your holy lips the direst sin remits, Disperse you cannot, but may soothe my woes; My load thus eased, to foreign lands I go, Reckless of future fate or hostile skies, Your prayers are all that I can hope below;"--" Proceed my son," the aged seer replies," Daily my prayers for you to heaven's high throne shall rise."
Xxix. Edwal his bosom crossed and lowly bent:" Father, before you now an orphan stands, A stranger ever to parental bands; Yet one to whom maternal nature lent A secret-voice, for though a cradle-child Misfortune threw me on the shoals of life, She at my throbbing heart has dwelt and smiled, And gave me when its bitter ills were rife To meet without dismay, and bear the unequal strife.
XXX. " Her bias in my soul is deep and true To its first cast, for well I feel and know That nor my birth nor lineage is low, Yet know not what they are, or whence I grew; But never could my mind dependence brook, The vulgar selfishness of prosperous pride, The bitter crumbs from rich men's tables shook With grudging hand, now by caprice denied, And now the loathed price of what their lips deride.
Xxxi. " The day when Lindisfarne me first received Within its holy walls, a stripling young, Memory does not retain, but oft has flung Fresh on my view the one that me bereaved Of its maternal care,-- a desperate band Of lawless Pagans from the Northern seas, By fierce Vikingr led, had gained the strand; In vain the altars blazed, and holy knees To heaven in vain were bent-- naught could their wrath appease.
Xxxii. " Its thrilling tones the solemn saunce bell pealed Along the startled shore, as now on high The host was slowly raised, a fiend-like cry The Pagan horde returned, our blood congealed As up the high-arched aisles, where echoed still' Salve lux mundi' from the trembling choir, A shower of missiles came; then deep and shrill Flowed back the note of death! the trembling floor The hallowed Pix received, all drenched with sacred gore!"
Xxxiii. " Thy will be done," in horror Wymond cried," Mysterious heaven!" then crossed his aged breast:" Live, reverend Presbyter, and hear the rest," Said Edwal--" all then might well have died! Some to the vaulted crypts for refuge fled, The intricate Triforia others sought, Their snowy albs with ghastly crimson red! Some at the Virgin's shrine delirious caught, Perchance a miracle for them might there be wrought!
Xxxiv. " Favoured by youth, with bolder step I gained The sacristy, from thence the cloister passed, And issuing at its portal, from me cast My robe noviciate, nor there remained Horrors to witness that I could not stay; But favoured by the falling shades of night, To Cumberland's blue mountains bent my way, For their far summits drew my aching sight As though some loadstar did my fated steps invite.
XXXV. " From lake to lake I roved, from vale to vale, Drinking large draughts at those inspiring springs That nature there to her glad votaries brings, From fountains deep and clear, that never fail; My sole companion was my cherished lyre, To powers unseen I touched its wildest string, From them I snatched the old Promethean fire That kindled once, to ashes all must bring, Or blaze with heaven's own light, and with its wanderers sing."
Xxxvi. " A fever of the brain," rejoined the seer," An ignis fatuus that tempts our youth, From whence the freshes are of sacred truth To syrtis deep, or swamp in desert drear, A fell siroc that enervates the mind And breathes upon the nerve its rabid taint; For such disease alone, no cure I find In the weird vellum of the buried saint On which my temples rest, with prayer and watching faint."
Xxxvii. " That well I knew," replied the impatient youth" For who can drain that ever-welling spring, Of deep emotions, that sustain the wing Of youthful fancy in pursuit of truth? As soon might hope to stop with outstretched hand, The rushing rain that on the casement pours At dead of night! or stay at thy command The electric flash that over the welkin cowers, When yields the volved air to nature's poising powers!
Xxxviii. " But though no cure sensation's child must know,' T is bliss to him that through his bosom steals, He sees with ardent eyes, and deeply feels; As nature gives the cast the shoots will grow, Some creep the earth along in strength secure, In shade and shelter safe, and foliage green, While others high, do pampering suns endure, With wanton breezes toy that pass unseen, Or brave the reckless storm that rides the blue serene.
Xxxix. " But, holy Father! I your patience try, Then list my hapless tale, too long delayed: One eve by Goldrill's sinuous course I strayed, Feasting with nature's loveliness my eye, When shrieks of wild despair assailed my ear, Onward I rushed and from the furious tide A form angelic bore, a form that ever In my devoted heart must deep reside, Till death, as fate has done, our plighted souls divide.
XL. " Alas for us! in Goldrill's crystal waves The sweet ideal of our souls we found, And by that wizard spell our fates were bound That mocks the human will and heaven braves; Delicious thraldom! that the vanquished heart Makes more divinely free-- when doubt is over, Celestial tremors in the bosom start, And on the nerve their tides of rapture pour When reason's broken rein nor guides nor stays them more.
Xli. " Father, we loved as none ever loved before, As none must hope to love; light flew the hours, One wish, one taste, one heart, one soul was ours; For us the fields their tenderest blossoms wore, For us the summer birds the morn awoke, And strained their little bills at even-tide, For us the moon in floods of silver broke On woods, and silent streams, where fairies hied To hold their ancient reul some lonely oak beside.
Xlii. " The prize I won, a father's hand bestowed, The royal Edgar graced our nuptial rites, Northumbria's noblest thanes, and bravest knights, To Alwine's glory brought the debt they owed." " To Alwine's glory!" the recluse exclaimed," Was Evelyn then thy bride? and art thou he Whose base desertion has her name defamed? Thy wedded wife, no morgan gift had she-- But shame, false perjured youth, shame on thy cheek I see.
Xliii. " Thy slow repentance then, has brought thee here,' T is well,'t is well, comfort to such I give: Know then, that Alwine ere he ceased to live-- Start not! nor shed for him that useless tear, His spirit wanders in a happier sphere, Him in his last, his dying hour I shrived, At peace with thee he passed, and in my ear Her mind assured whose filial bosom strived' Gainst some rash, secret vow, I deem by thee contrived."
Xliv. One manly tear to Alwine's memory shed, Edwal resumed--" Shame then my aspect wears-- And so't will be-- reflection hardest bears On sealed lips, and what the soul has fled On loathing wing will memory still infest, As spectres linger near the holiest ground; Such deem the shame thou seest, and now the rest-- By wedlock's chain our hands and hearts were bound, The mass, priest's holy lips with blessings all had crowned.
XLV. " Thus to propitious gales our bark of love Its crowded canvass spread; the laughing tide In golden billows rolled, and far and wide Lay sunny isles of bliss, and high above A cloudless canopy;-- Delusive charms! The bitter reflux came its wreck to strew: Night spread her moony wings-- these felon arms A bride-- an Evelyn-- a wife,'t is true-- But oh! oh, gracious heaven!-- they clasped a sister too.
Xlvi. " As with a scorpion stung, aghast I stood! Then flew on frenzy's wings, I knew not where; But first we vowed that holy church should share Alone, the secret dire that chilled our blood; The proof you ask? -- lo! on my bared neck A dragon's head, and wings, and feet displayed! Such from their birth the race of Alwine deck, Pendragon's ancient badge, and his who swayed The sceptre now at Malcolm's feet dishonoured laid.
Xlvii. " Such, holy priest! is my unhappy tale; Absolved by thee, the morrow's rising sun Shall see the purpose of my soul begun, And raised for foreign lands the friendly sail. Too near the fire my scorched spirit dwells; Ten thousand times a brother's love I feel; The more I strive, the more my heart rebels, Nor laws divine, nor reason's voice can heal The fever's quenchless flames, that through my bosom steal.
Xlviii. He ceased. --" Unhappy youth!" the hermit said," To that retreat thy story finds its way Where long all earthly things have lost their sway; Traces that time had closed are open laid, And touched once more my breast by mortal care; Thy case relief admits, thy mind compose, But see, the day is spent, and evening prayer Too long delayed-- that done, we'll seek repose-- More, when the morning sun on Hind Scaur's summit glows."
Xlix. Then to the throne of grace their knees were bent, Felt was the power of prayer!-- hope came once more On Edwal's heart: the solemn service over, Wymond his pallet smoothed, and bade content On Edwal's slumbers wait. Penance that day Saint Herbert's rule enjoined; but ere he sought His moss-grown tomb whereon his head to lay, Apprised the astonished youth, when morning caught The eastern cliffs with its reviving ray, The float that brought him there them both would bear away.Saint Herbert's Isle.

I. Brief was thy empire now, majestic night! Yet glorious! gladdened with a countless host Of soft attendant stars, profusely tost Over thy Cimmerian bosom, sparkling bright. Scarce had thy raven wings the twilight chased From Derwent's lonely isle, and sleep distilled On Edwal's lids, when over the watery waste Again they sped, in other breasts to build Fond hopes as frail as those with which his own was filled.
Ii. At length the impatient hours the twilight led With vapour-sandaled feet and rubied cheek, Over Walla's toppling crags and summits bleak To high Blencathra's ravine-rifted head; But yet no vagrant beam had downward sped To Derwent's silver flood, the last star there Still slept serene, bathing its tresses red, When over its waters' gan the pinnace fair To move sublimely slow, unconscious how-- or where!
Iii. No gentle oar does urge, no breeze impels, Save one that moves below, unheard, unseen, Well does the shepherd know that breeze, I ween, And of the slumbering storm prophetic tells: How dark and solemnly the waters heave, Touched by that magic wand! naught stirs to break The trill melodious on the ear they leave: Wave after wave, in liquid lapses speak, As glides the charmed pinnace from its hallowed creek.
Iv. How soft and silvery is the beauteous dawn! How grey the shadows fall-- how broad and deep! The unsunned hills in clouded grandeur sleep, Or bare their hoary peaks to meet the morn. Now higher climbs the sun-- a thousand forms The fleecy vapours take, a thousand hues The lower regions gild, the valley warms With his inspiring rays; and damps, and dews And night-born chills disperse, as he his course renews.
V. Onward the purling waves by secret spell The pinnace move-- Saint Herbert's isle recedes, And thy rich reach of crags the vision feeds, Dale of the Barrow! where the Muses dwell, And fling the pencil to their favoured sons; No vale in thee but flows in beauty's line! No stream but wildly through thy bosom runs! No pensile wood that on thy hills recline, Or rock with moss bespread, but wakes a taste divine!
Vi. And now on Friar's Crag the voyagers land, The mystic winds no more the waters sway, By thee, sweet Castle rig, they took their way, Fast by the Druid's grove, where first they stand; And now the Seer the solemn silence broke:" Thou shudderest, I see, my son," he said," Relics to view that Time's resistless stroke Still spares, by direst superstition made, Abomination vile to Christian eyes displayed!
Vii. " Yet mingled feelings in my breast I find, The only ray that heaven had then dispensed Illumined once what these rude masses fenced, Light of the primal, patriarchal mind! Before Idolatry began, here glowed A theism pure from ancient Sidon brought, Here oral theorems and placits flowed On barbarous soil; and here I deem was taught The cabalistic lore with sacred wisdom fraught.
Viii. " At length idolatry the world over-ran, The' high place' reaching and the' pillared grove,' The statutes then with impious hands they rove, And stones sepulchral, gods to be began: The Druid felt the stream, and worship gave To Titan chiefs, and in oblation shed Even human blood! but soon the Roman wave His rites overwhelmed, and quickly in their stead The heathen altar blazed, and heathen darkness spread.
Ix. " But deeper now the intellectual gloom Than when the Mitzoth's light was here dispensed, For though that light no longer came condensed And pure, the Flamen's torch obscene, was fume With it compared; but soon the' day-spring' rose' And knew its place,' we from the fountain drew One early rill that never ran dry nor froze; At length the full stream flowed, and Anglia knew Its blessed healing powers, and so to health she grew."
X. Sweet Fornside! now, thy cottaged dells along The travellers sped, till Green Crag's tower-like brow The road overhung; the Leathy murmured low, The mountain merle poured forth her morning song; On Therlemere's classic shore a path they scale, Where very step, Ausonia! vies with thee, From Raven crag to Armboth's pastoral vale, From thence, bleak Wyburn, to thy sterile lea And dark defile, where bleat the lambs from scree to scree.
Xi. And now the hermit silence once more broke:" Approach, my son, beneath this pagan heap By warriors piled, a Christian's relics sleep! Long gone is now the day since I the yoke So light to bear imposed; here Dunmail lies, The last of that illustrious line that swayed The strath-clwyd sceptre; still do Cumbria's sighs The fatal day deplore, when crossed and frayed The British dragon crouched as loud the white horse neighed.
Xi. " Hither I fittest deemed thy feet to lead, Ere from thy heart I moved its weight of woe, Belike thou knowest that Dunmail's haughty foe In pride of conquest savagely decreed-- His two surviving sons their eyes should lose; The brazen basin was prepared in vain: Thou hearest his voice whom heaven its agent chose Those helpless babes to save,-- their father slain, I fled the royal tent, and with me bore the twain.
Xiii. " Alvinus still survived, almost alone! And deep retired by Goldrill's bloodless brook, The Saxon epithet of Alwine took; The scions brought by him were deemed his own, But Edmund still to jealous thoughts a prey And dark revenge, his restless search renewed; My fears alarmed, once more I bore away The orphan shoots, their little kirtles viewed Near to the water's edge, with tears each eye bedewed.
Xiv. " One of those shoots art thou! renewed I feel On Dunmail's lineage again to fall, Me early friend! his graces thine recall As over thy mantling cheek even now they steal! The abbot then of holy Lindisfarne( Thy father's friend and mine) to thee was true; But ere the passing hand had heaped this karn, To saints in heaven his gentle spirit flew, And I alone on earth thy secret story knew.
XV. " Under Elgiva's inauspicious eye Thy brother Elissed a page was reared, Her fatal love and Edwy's thou hast heard; From monkish tyranny compelled to fly In Powysland at length he favour found, He with his prince a fickle fortune shared, And' gainst the Saxon fell with glory crowned; Thy tear of sympathy may well be spared-- Virtue and glory too his early grave prepared.
Xvi. " And now, my son, that ponderous mass remove That crowns thy father's dust, these arms again Which placed it there would with it strive in vain; That casket take, it will thy lineage prove; Thy history there is testified by me. And there the brand thou' lt find to Bertha known, To Hartsip now I guess thou fain wouldst flee, Farewell, my son! thy heart now lighter grown To heaven henceforth devote, to heaven, and heaven alone."
Xvii. " Alone; yet father, stay, my thoughts are wild, One word, one gentle word, and I adore! The lovely Evelyn the impress bore-- What meant thy speech? is she too Dunmail's child? Of sons you told-- oh! hold the cup of joy Not near my lips, if to be dashed again: Thou fearest sure my greedy ears to cloy With bliss too subtle for my busy brain, Or wouldst thou mock my bonds, and only change my chain?"
Xviii. " Not so-- on her the brand was lightly laid; Time soon effaced the scar-- this Alwine sought To lull suspicion-- his the badge was thought,-- In memory only has it marked the maid-- On you and Elissed't was deeply sealed, Proof of your royal claims, if need there were When this poor tenement to time shall yield: Now, gentle youth! thy Maker's ways revere, Thy bride is Alwine's child-- let joy thy bosom cheer."
Xix. But what were Edwal's mixed emotions now? -- If joy was paramount,'t was not entire; He pressed the manes of a royal sire, Whose crown, his right, now decked a stranger's brow. His hurrying thoughts their backward glances throw His wrongs irreparable stand confessed-- To Wymond, fain his grateful speech would flow; But why so long in one precarious breast Had he the secret stored? such thoughts his soul distressed.
XX. A moment's pause, and juster views arose!' T was but ambition's spark, a venial pride, That with unbidden but resistless tide His soul beset, again his bosom glows With virtue's fire, and generous tears relieve His struggling breast--" Oh, more than father thou! Oh, minister of peace! from him receive All that old Dunmail's son can now bestow, These sweet, these grateful drops, from Edwal's heart they flow."
Xxi. " Give them," said Wymond," at the throne of grace, Its human instrument alone was I; Now to Saint Herbert's shrine again I hie, No more henceforth to quit that sacred place." They part-- but Edwal on his father's karn A spectral statue stands! the last embrace His shattered nerves assured, but seemed to warn His inward spirit of celestial grace Come down his steps to guide to their abiding place.
Xxii. What meant that doubtful and foreboding gloom That chilled his veins? why quailed his manly breast As to his own the hermit's bosom pressed? Why seemed below to quake the moss-grown tomb? Around with vacant and desponding eye Awhile he gazed! no being wandered there! The dismal mountains reared their heads on high, His father's manes seemed to win the air, And from their lonely haunt all other things to scare!
Xxiii. Reason suspends her sway! wild fancies wake Beyond the range of sense! and structures build, And never-ending portals seem to gild Of by-gone things-- again the warriors take The buried brownbill and the sounding glaive, Leaving their caverned homes and dreamless sleep, In pride of hope their haughty banners wave, From cliff to cliff they glide, from steep to steep, While angels look from heaven and over their madness weep!
Xxiv. Grasmere! thy vale of peace no longer smiles, Tempe of Saxon plains-- lo! Edmund's furious band From Rydal's Grove extends to Casticand, And round thy shrinking waves in pomp defiles; His eyeballs flash revenge-- thy Western shore Confederate Britons throng; from Loughrig's - head Down Helme Crag's stony steep they madly pour, The Rothay dozes over his pastoral bed, And shrinks from thy embrace ere yet his waves are red!
XXV. Down thy blue sides, Helvelyn! murky mists Are gathering fast. The Cumbrian there arrays-- A hurdled panoply his front displays; He seeks with headlong rage the fatal lists-- They halt! and gaze awhile! the bugle sounds, The fallen hero's song the bards renew, From hill to hill the inspiring war-note bounds, The invading hordes with scorn the Cymri view, Resolved, though one to ten, to die or to subdue!
Xxvi. The battle front is formed! defiance flies From side to side! unfurled the banners reel! The sun plays lightly on the brandished steel! The wolves are howling round! the eaglet cries! The onset comes! the shields are gleams of fire! One dreadful clash is heard-- the ranks give way-- Again they rally and again retire! On Thirlemere thrice the Cymri fell, and they Three times on Grasmere drove the invading foe that day!
Xxvii. As equal slaughter thinned the hostile ranks The Saxon vantage grew; but naught could chill The Cymri blood! the dreadful dragon still Strewed with the Saxon corse the brooklet's banks That by Seat Sandal flows, whose crimsoned feet By Steel Fell met, an arch inverted seemed Of bodies slain! still raged the battle-heat Till Dunmail fell--"' t was here his life-blood streamed," Said Edwal, with a start, conscious he had but dreamed!
Xxviii. ' T is done!-- ambition in his veins no more He meanly feels: the ghastly scene of blood, The royal phantom that before him stood, His wakeful fancy pictures over and over; The sons of those that with their liege would die Still missed their sires; the matron still would dwell On him who never returned her tears to dry; No bordel decked the vale, no logge the fell, But still of child, or sire, or mate bereaved would tell.
Xxix. When autumn gilds the falling leaf,'t is sweet Up winding mountain-paths at morn to glide, To view the fruitful vales spread far and wide, And list the unfolded flocks that over them bleat. The living spirit of the balmy air The nerves refresh-- the rapt, excursive eye Its own elysium seeks, and lingers there; Awhile forgets the bounding heart to sigh, Awhile all earthly cares and earthly sorrows fly.
XXX. It were as though the soul to heaven drawn By chain invisible, began to free Its earthly bonds that it might thither flee. So Edwal felt as over the tawny lawn Of Grisedale's barren ridge he onward pressed, From every care, save those of love, he flew! The wily tyrant him once more caressed, Along his path his sweetest roses threw, And dressed his home of joy in tints of Iris' hue.
Xxxi. Fond youth, thy transports may be short of date, Yet onward go! thy slumbers who would break To show the yawning gulp to which thou' lt wake Ere twice yon orb his fiery steeds shall bait? Thy morning voyage, the storm of noon foretold, Thy bosom-gleams, alas! ill-omened shone; Yet sleep, if sleep thou canst, for ah, behold! The mists are gathering round, the mountains groan, And nature's frame recoils, as soon must do thy own!
Xxxii. Deep Dale is silent!-- Dove Crag's head is hid! Helvelyn blackens in the coming gloom; The flocks are driving to their heathery holme, Aneath their feet the loosened screes have slid; The warned herds moan plaintively below, And restless, wander round their sultry hills; The thrush sits songless on the misletoe; A fragrant damp the woods and valleys fills, And nature's pausing power through every bosom thrills.
Xxxiii. Anon the clouds with direr portents frown! Their silver lights in gathering gloom decay; The big drops glitter in the last pale ray, And with a furious gust come pattering down! A sudden darkness comes! the winds are high! The midway scaur is now a mountain grown! The sheeted torrent from the angry sky Is over the parched plains impetuous blown, And Goldrill's lovely fields with haver sheaves are strown!
Xxxiv. Now wretch! of luxury( miscalled) the slave, And pleasures nursed by vice and pampering sloth, Seek the turfed cot, and from the impending wrath Of angry heaven its timely shelter crave, The rocking mountains have no joys for you! Nor torrents rushing from a thousand rills! Nor gloomy woodlands wrapped in lightnings blue! Nor warbling choristers in sheltering gills Perched by the prey-bird's side along their leafy sills!
XXXV. Not so did Edwal shrink!'t was joy to him With daring step to climb the loftiest peak! Sublimely there he saw the tempest wreak Its headlong fury on the mountain brim: Now gathering round his head, the folded clouds Their pitchy darkness spread! hid is the earth! From his right arm as't were the flash has sped; His voice in fancy gives the thunder birth; The cloud his chariot seems, he moves" the mountain mirth!"
Xxxvi. But round his head a transient gleam succeeds, On Black Crag's bosom now the storm is nursed; From Capel Cove the Red Tarn's waters burst, And over the heath a thousand torrents feeds! On striding edge the vivid lightnings run, Fresh peals from hill to hill does echo fling: Glenridden roars amidst his mosses dun! And Swarth Fell's hundred tongues their answers bring, The chough forsakes her young, and flaps her raven wing!
Xxxvii. In darker masses pressed the vapours lie! The arrowy hail descends in sheeted showers! The Naiads tremble in their sultry bowers, Or through their sylvan haunts affrighted fly! Now lighter fall the drops! the welkin clears, The unburthened clouds disperse the vales along, The sun breaks forth! the glittering cot appears; The green leaves smile; the finch renews his song, The Guelder rose expands, the bees its blossoms throng!
Xxxviii. Beneath his feet the land of promise lies, And Edwal's heart beat high-- the bracken bends As through its amber paths he joyous wends, The roofs of Hartsip meet his anxious eyes: To pass the gill, now swollen, in vain he tries, Ill brooks he patience now, but help there's none, A lowly cot invites, the youth complies; Scarce have his feet the well-known threshold won When Bertha's form he meets," Begone!" she screams" begone!"
Xxxix. " Dishonoured knight! imposter false, begone! Lord Alwine rests not in the peaceful grave! My lady Evelyn, who deemed thee brave And loved thee well, but lived that love to mourn! Her infant years I nursed; full well she knew How to repay my care; these fields were dear To her! they mourn her loss!-- the flowers that grew Beneath her hands, are withered now and sere; The serf that shared her care sheds now the bitter tear!
XL. " Is Evelyn then no more? speak, Bertha! speak, Rend, rend my heart!"--" She lives! but not for thee." " But not for me!-- oh mercy, heaven! could she, Could Evelyn be false? where shall I seek For comfort now? my stars still darker grow, My spirit wanders in a shoreless sea! A broken leaf, I'm driven to and fro, The sport of evil fiends, where shall I flee For rest, oh Evelyn! if torn again from thee?
Xli. " Bertha, thou wrong me much: a heart more true Beats not on earth than mine-- this, this to prove Brings me to Hartsip now, for her I love; For her thou lov so well, to thee I sue; Those words unsay--' she lives, but not for thee!'"" For heaven she lives," said Bertha," heaven alone!"" Almost again my heart thou renderest free; The mountain thou laidest there is lighter grown; Be sooth thy gentle speech, nor turn that heart to stone,"
Xlii. " Sir knight, your pardon," said the ancient dame In milder mood," I always deemed you true, Who like yourself could lady's heart subdue? Sir Edwal's cause would Bertha never defame, When every tongue reviled but her's alone And lady Evelyn's;-- she marred their spleen. Nay, thank me not, a gentle knight is known By all he says and does; your minstrel-green And harp on shoulder flung by me soon through were seen.
Xliii. " Sir Priest shall know before the evening wears, Whether, or not, some base-born ceorl thou art; The vile defamer acts no meaner part Than those who take on trust what he prepares." " True, Bertha, true," exclaimed the impatient youth," My honour thou shalt keep: but, gentle dame, On coals of fire I stand-- impart the truth, For heaven thou said she lives; in heaven's blest name, Thy meaning yield me quick, nor my impatience blame."
Xliv. " Need were I should, most noble knight: then hear, Oh! had thou sooner come, but one short week-- How many tears I've shed!-- scarce can I speak--' T is hard to end my days an outcast here: My dreams indeed foretold thou would be true, With these I oft my lady's spirits cheered.  She could not dream, for sleep her pillow flew; She never complained, but all resigned appeared, And waxed as pale as were the snow-drops that she reared.
XLV. " The wahrift you so praised! at this she wrought When damp the day abroad-- but all went wrong! What there she did, took me full thrice as long To ravel out: if I the hearpan brought Her head it pained; yet would she steal at times When twilight came, to bower by river side, And list for hours to the unmeaning chimes Of distant chapel bells, till far and wide The nightingale's shrill notes would her late wanderings chide.
Xlvi. " The Thane( saints keep his soul!) thought all went well, She smiled when he was by, and talked and sung; I saw the tear, when on his neck she hung, Or by his settle prayed, that silent fell; But I was aye discreet."--" Yes, Bertha, yes!" Exclaimed the youth," thou art a pattern pure Of excellence! but you my mind distress By long suspense. Despair were better sure Than those uncertain pangs my boding thoughts endure.
Xlvii. " Where, where is Evelyn?"--" Soon shall you hear If Bertha's tongue has power the tale to tell; Oh! you would wish that you had heard her knell Ere such a piteous tale had met your ear. Lord Alwine sickened and the leech was foiled; Saint Herbert's holy priest the unction gave, His lips from Satan's bonds the Thane assoiled; The fever grew, no power on earth could save, I wot my lady's tears have well bedewed his grave!
Xlviii. " Of all she loved bereft, save me alone; I strove to comfort her, but strove in vain: Alas! my remedies increased her pain! If Edwin's fate I sang, she did but moan,-- Edwin by cruel brother sent adrift In shattered boat, nor food, nor oar had he, The little innocent could make no shift-- So runs the song-- his grave is in the sea, She did but moan and sigh, nor smiled she more on me.
Xlix. " At length, Sir Priest-- may Zernbeck pinch the loon!-- My gentle lady bore one morn away." " Away! Sir Priest! Sir Alan, did you say?" " Even so I said, but he returned this noon-- His presence anger caused;-- you found me pa le, I fear I wanting was."--" No, Bertha, no, No more of that-- but haste-- thy tale, thy tale." " To Coldingham, forsooth! she needs must go, And there a nun be made! was ever such tale of woe?"
L. A moment Edwal paused; his cheeks were pale, His manly eye cast down, a tremor came Over every limb, shaking his inmost frame;" Bertha, this is indeed a woeful tale! It is, I see, with heaven itself I fight; I left a heavenly for an earthly love, Now does its awful hand its recreant smite! Oh! had the tyrant from their sockets drove These weary, aching eyes, ere they this thraldom wove!
Li. " Yet does a faint hope cross my sickly brain-- My bride was Edgar's gift, his royal name And Dunstan's( more revered) her pride may tame The haughty abbess!-- else, all power is vain. Saint Hilda aid my prayer! Saint Cuthbert now Thy early votary serve! perchance the veil Shades not as yet the lovely victim's brow; If not professed, the lofty walls I'll scale, If but with earth I fight-- love! love may yet prevail!"Saint Herbert's Isle.
I. Now Edwal stands upon the hills once more, Majestic in his sorrow! lost in thought, His heart with bitter disappointment fraught Has flown, Northumbria! to thy farthest shore; But not as late to Hartsip's bowers it flew, Borne on the wings of hope in visions sweet! A deep despondence now its shadow threw His path around, yet must his weary feet Seek in that joyless path love's last and lone retreat.
Ii. Vale of Saint Patrick! why does Edwal joy Again to ponder on thy lovely scene? No angel form now glides thy rocks between, Or wakes with shrieks of woe thy echos coy: Love now no more incensed, his rights asserts, Nor on the sun-beam rests his downy wings, But every alley green, and glen deserts; It is thy magic power, sweet memory! brings Back on his sickening soul the hope to which it clings.
Iii. ' T is said the impressions of the infant brain Are deeply set, and though long absence wear, And from the tablet of retention tear Their forms awhile, yet will the gentle train Revive and kindle as we view again The forms which gave them birth,-- so Edwal deemed What now he saw, deep cinctured long had lain Within his boyish breast-- the lake, the mountains seemed, Though smaller, those of which in childhood he had dreamed.
Iv. As round the holy isle the wolves would howl As rose the moon, the association came, He knew not why! of some majestic frame Of pendent gill over which did rudely scowl Mountains with tabled heads, eneath which did tend A seeming bridge of rocks of sable hue; That scene before him lay! as some lost friend Returned that once he loved! thus memory threw Her glance excursive round, to feed on objects new.
V. Round Lindisfarne, though ocean's waves had rolled High as the hills he saw! a milder flood His youthful fancy drew, near which there stood One aged tree whose hollowed trunk would hold Some plaything prized: now, as he gazed around That fading thought revived, as near his feet One silvery willow drooped and kissed the ground; His hand the trunk explored, his bosom beat! A little boat lay there, his name still marked its seat!
Vi. Time was, when Edwal had transported clung To recognitions sweet as these! but now His mental malady would ill allow Room for emotions that from rapture sprung; Short Lived they were! within its mossy bed, Again the toy he placed-- perchance some future day A smile might chase the tear that there he shed! Longer he trusted not his steps to stray, But down the winding shore pursued his hapless way.
Vii. And Hartsip's ivied walls are now in view, Its well-remembered bowers and fields of joy! The very spot where first with tremors coy Love shook his gentle wings, and from him flew! In amber robes the coppiced dells were dressed; The bounding waters leaped-- the throstle sung-- Their new-fledged broods the lesser birds caressed-- The mountain ash, with scarlet clusters strung, Over rocks of silvery hue its gaudy splendour flung.
Viii. Ah! what avails to hearts of rest bereaved, The pomp and garniture of sylvan scenes? In vain does nature spread her rich demesnes To him by care beset, or love deceived! The soul that communes with her whispers low, And tastes her pure delights, must tranquil be; As streams reflect where scarce they seem to flow, If but a ruffle over their bosoms flee-- No more the sun-gilt slopes reposing there we see.
Ix. Nor now, alas! was Edwal's tortured breast A mirror fit for nature's soothing charms; Her secret glance, the choice that taste embalms, On his dejected eye no longer rest; The winding path obscure, and bower of love, The bank with blossoms decked, the beckoning glade, Alone he saw! where earthly passion throve; But feelings desolate his bosom swayed, As over the once-loved scenes his ardent vision strayed.
X." Thou tempest dire," he said," in which I stood, Joying thy bolts to watch, as all amongst Those realms of rock thy forked fire thou flung In idle play! how changed is now my mood! My evil genius sure thy spirit brewed, The crags smile out again by thee unrent, The torrent's foaming rage is now subdued! On me, on me alone! thy ire is spent, My swollen bosom boils, but finds, alas! no vent."
Xi. With this the north with hurried step he faced, Nor backward threw one lingering look again, Till to a lonely thwaite, amidst the plain, Of Inglewood's deep forest he had paced; The tenants gaunt and grim, to scare he knew Of that lone covert, though they howled around, And rushed with bristling snuff the thickets through, He frayed the monsters with his bugle's sound, And snatched a short repose stretched on the heathery ground.
Xii. At glimpse of morn he rose, nor night nor day His steps could more retard till he drew near The goal for which he sped, when on his ear This rumour came, from one who fled that way;" The Danes are on the coast-- their paynim swords Seek not the rightful war-- for plunder they Their lawless legions land-- Edgar affords The harassed shores no help-- our warriors pray, While theirs with fire and sword make good their easy way!
Xiii. " Laestingham razed has been, nor Strenshall spared, Wearmouth and Jarrow have their fury felt, To Coldingham they sail; the nuns have knelt, And vowed their chastity with life to guard!"" The fyrd! the fyrd!" cried Edwal," raise the fyrd. I will its leader be! what dastard soul Ever thought of safety when the sea-king stirred? Saxons, obey your king's, your country's call, In Edgar's name I speak, your lieges one and all!"
Xiv. Another fugitive!" and what bring thou?" " The Dane on Coldingham his march makes good, My lady abbess and the sisterhood, True to the Virgin and their sacred vow, The portals close; even now disgust succeeds His brutal hopes, his teeth he grinds with rage As over the turrets beauty leans, and bleeds With wounds self-dealt; they from their blessed cage Sweet hymns still wildly sing his fury to assuage!"
XV. " Spirit of mighty Alfred! nerve my arm, For now my country calls, my life, my love! One moment leave thy blissful seat above, And this devoted band of patriots warm To deeds like thine, that never on earth shall die!" He said, and then his willing troop arrayed With what the neighbouring hamlet could supply, Not to increase the force his march delayed, But onward boldly rushed, by numbers undismayed.
Xvi. A gentle eminence before him rose,' Yond which the fierce invader marshalled lay Beneath the walls, where dwelt his trembling prey; Up this the Saxons wound with bended bows; But ere the foe they see, a thrilling strain Floats on the breeze! the Quida loud they sung; Of Lodbrog's feats it told, and scorn of pain When round his limbs the coiling reptiles clung, And him to dizzy death with fangs envenomed stung.
Xvii. Then sang the scald the deadly, deep revenge On Ella wreaked; as less and less remote Fell on the ear that horror-breathing note, The Saxons grasped their spears his fate t' avenge; Edwal the moment seized," the standard, ho!" They rush impetuous down, the prize is theirs! The Reafan lost, a panic struck the foe; Edwal the banner from the standard tears, The bigot-pagan flies, his blood the victor spares.
Xviii. Merciful heaven! whence that appalling scream That palsies every nerve, and turns with pain The bloodless triumph on the heart again? Raise not thy eyes, ill-fated youth, nor dream Of triumph more! for lo! the raging flames The convent's towers enfold! the woods profound Their leafy fuel lend! pale mangled the frames Glare ghastly through! and from the moat around, At intervals is heard the plunges' dismal sound!
Xix. Yet was there mercy in that hour for thee, Thou cradled heir of woe!-- thy bridled tongue, The laugh convulsive on thy lip that hung, The sigh," too deep for tears!" the tear of glee, The spectral gait, the intense but vacant gaze, Reason's extinguished lamp within, betrayed, And well't were so! for in that mental haze Thy heart's deep agony at rest was laid, And judgment's sad delusions round her ruins played!
XX. There was no second shriek! but down the haughs Fiend Like rejoicing on the horizon float. Exulting yells, still more and more remote, Just reached the ear, and died-- then came a pause; The sun went blushing down; but when he rose Changed was the scene, and still-- no matin rung His beams to welcome on those shriveled boughs! No virgin lips their sweet oraison sung! Nor organ down the vale its tones celestial flung!
Xxi. Time to the historic page just gave the deed With shuddering brevity; minute detail Sleeps in the mist of his obscuring veil, But to this hour does horror fancy feed! No lyre as yet the martyrdom has sung Of those devoted maids, as though its strings Refused to vibrate to the strain; and, wrung With horror, mine recoils as now it sings With unaspiring lay, the tale my legend brings.
Xxii. The moon her crescent pale had hid that night, But when her disk was filled and sweetly shone On Edwal's lattice, then, his mind though lone And dark so long, regained its wonted light, As her refulgent beam his pallet cheered-- The memory came again, and all the past Broke on his conscious soul! again appeared The conflagration, and that form that last Over his benighted mind its gloom oblivious cast.
Xxiii. That flame was but the silver lamp of night Meeting the dawn of thought-- the form that stood To him half figured in the radiant flood, A vision seemed, robed in celestial light! An angel's smile her pallid cheeks illume That falls on Edwal's soul as falls the gleam Of April's sun on hyacinthine bloom Chilled by untimely snow-- to him I deem Awful that vision seemed, but yet no idle dream.
Xxiv. What eye can gaze on shade incorporate With stedfast nerve? -- but his, to phantoms wild Albeit inured, saw the ideal child Of his bereaved hopes with look elate:" Com thou," he said," to tell me thou art blest? If so, then blest am I: reposing late Methought I saw thee in noviciate vest The veiled sisters leave, who closed the grate, Mindful thou shouldst not share their sad, but blessed fate.
XXV. " To me it seemed that in a herdsman's cot Thou then didst refuge find, till hearing soon The tale this casket told, a dizzy swoon Thy frame enfeebled seized; since which my lot Alone thy care absorbed; then led by thee In Hartsip's vales I roved, where love once more My harassed senses nursed, and set them free From anguish keen-- loved shade! that sleep restore, Or guide my willing soul to thy celestial bower."
Xxvi. Then spake a human voice--" Edwal dismiss The mist that still thy intellectual eye Obscures; true is thy recent dream, and I Thy Evelyn true-- witness this hallowed kiss." Warm were the lips he pressed; her fragrant breath The summer flower had robbed; her eye, the star That sheds its dewy tears at twilight's death;-- The smile she wore, was that which seraphs wear When proofs of love divine to trembling souls they bear.
Xxvii. Isle of St. Herbert! may I catch thy name, My venturous lay to grace? perchance awhile With thee that lay may live; for what, sweet isle! Can make thee alien to the voice of fame? Thy sacred shade his relics now contain The lover's hopes who crowned! and yearly there As still their bliss increased, to his lone fane Those lovers grateful came, to bend in prayer: Blest isle! in thee that love that never did wane Sublimed-- devotion grew-- and rose to heaven again.Notes. 
Notes To Saint Herbert's Isle.

Stanza 1, line 4.
" Cumbria's mountain land."
After the departure of the Romans from Britain, the island became divided into about thirty distinct governments. These petty republics, as they at first probably were, soon fell under the dominion of aspiring individuals, who succeeded each other in such rapid succession, that history has recorded little respecting them that can be deemed authentic; among these we have kings of Glastonbury, and kings of Kent, kings of Deira, Bernicia, Devonshire and Cumbria; the limits of this latter kingdom have not been precisely ascertained, and some writers have imagined that they have varied at different periods: as the ancient heptarchal kingdom of Northumberland comprised, together with the county now so called, many other counties, so did the ancient cimbric kingdom of Cumberland take in a very wide district of country, beyond the limits of the present shire, especially to the north. In a manuscript life of Kentigern, in the Cotton library, it is said to have extended from the wall of Severus to the Firth of Forth, a district in which Archbishop Usher has precisely placed the Bernicians; but this takes in a very small portion of the present county of Cumberland, and excludes that part in which the opening scene of this poem is laid. There can, however, be little doubt but that Hartsip or Hartshope was then, as now, a portion of" Cumbria's mountain land."
Stanza 6, line 7.
" The huge and ponderous mace
For sacred hands"
Ecclesiastics were by a canon enjoined the use of this instrument in battle.
Stanza 7.
I mention here, that in this stanza, and also in stanza xxviii of this canto, xlix of canto three, and xxvii of canto five, an additional line will be found to the ordinary structure of the stanza in which the poem is written. What was here at first an oversight, I chose not to alter, and in the other instances to adopt; seeing no reason if the ear concurs, why the thought, which may be so drawn out and expressed to more advantage, should give way to a mere mechanical principle, the only value of which perhaps, is uniformity. In the same feeling I have, in two or three instances, ventured upon syllabic variations, or rather allowed them to stand as first cast by the decision of the ear.
Stanza 8, line 4,
" Her white horse banner furls."
The Saxons bore upon their banner the figure of a white horse.
Stanza 9, line 1.
" As Brothers' - water still that pool is known."
This lake is said to have taken its name from two brothers being drowned in it by the breaking of the ice; the christening I have given it may be regarded as a poetical one, should historic accuracy be expected in a matter perhaps after all purely conjectural.
Stanza 16, line 9.
" The only sensual fruit."
Let me not be accused of degrading the art of landscape painting from its high and indisputable intellectual claims. I here speak only of the pleasure derived from the contemplation of a fine landscape, on its first access to the mind, through the inlet of the visual organ: even the aerial harmonies and the charms of colouring, so captivating to the sight when presented by nature, become materiae mentium to the professor in his closet elaborations, and enter deeply into the intellectual pleasure excited by the productions of this, to me, most fascinating branch of the art.
Stanza 17, line 8.
" And Ulpha's distant mere."
Ulswater--' till Ulpha's lake beneath them lay.'
 Bridal of Triermain.
Ulphus, or Uphus, governed in Deira, and probably pushed his arms to the western seas.'
 West's Furness. Ulverston.
Stanza 20, line 4.
" Or favoured Delos' now deserted shore."
Delos gave birth to both Apollo and Diana, the magnificent ruins of whose temples are still visible, but the island is now uninhabited.
line 8.
" Motion's true mean."
' Grace is the medium of motion.'
 Northcote, Life of Reynolds.
Stanza 25, line 8.
" The Cushat's murmuring that would never part."
' So turtles pair that never mean to part.'
 Winter's Tale.
Stanza 26, line 5.
" The merry hay-month gone."
The Saxons called July, Hen Monat, or hay-month.
Stanza 28, line 10.
" His morgan gift."
' This was a present made by the bryd-guma, or bridegroom, the day after marriage.'
 Turner's History of the Anglo Saxons.
Stanza 35, line 9.
" And Woden's frightful rights ere dawned the Christian day."
So late as the reign of Canute, laws were made to repress idolatry: the worship of the sun, moon, fires, rivers, fountains, hills, and trees, are forbidden by these laws.
Stanza 22, line 2.
" Ye rapture-burthened hours, For on your joyous tops is true love borne."
' On the top of happy hours.'
 Memoriter from Shakspeare.
Stanza 23, line 5.
" Nor England's crownless king."
Alluding to the ecclesiastical penance, by which Edgar was enjoined not to wear his crown for seven years, for the violence offered to a nobleman's daughter.
Stanza 23, line 7.
" He graced the dais."
" The dais in a Saxon hall occupied about one quarter of the floor, and was raised by one step; here sat the people of distinction only, with the principal members of the family."
 Ivanhoe.
Stanza 24, line 3.
" And now a barren sceptre Edgar wore."
It is well known that this monarch was the mere tool of the monks, by whom his predecessor had been dethroned, if not murdered.
line 4.
" Dunstan, Glastonbury's abbot meek."
Saint Dunstan did not receive the pallium till A.D. 960.
line 7.
" And Odo called, Who whilom did the burning iron cool In beauty's lovely cheek."
Odo, archbishop of Canterbury, pronounced the divorce of Edwy and Elgiva, and entering the palace of this beautiful and unfortunate queen, ordered the soldiers who attended him to brand her on the face with a hot iron; he then forcibly sent her to Ireland, commanding her to remain in perpetual exile. Her return and subsequent murder are but too well known.
Stanza 25, line 4.
" And he of Mathraval, Of the old Cymnri Paradise the stay."
Mathraval was the seat of power in Powys: Llywarch Hen denominates it" the Paradise of the Cymnri,"-- Powys Paraduys Gumri. See Lhuyd's Archaeologia.
Stanza 26, line 9.
" A golden beage was bound."-- Bracelet.
Stanza 30, line 9.
" The gleeman's joke-- the buffa's jest."
The gleeman was a sort of juggler, the buffa a jester; both were essential to Saxon conviviality.
Stanza 1, line 1.
"-- on Casticand."
Catchidicam, is so called by Camden and other old writers.
Stanza 11, line 6.
" So through the night Did Scandinavia's fabled monsters rove."
The magical and monstrous Trolli, who loved darkness, and were converted into stone when they approached the light. Torfeus does not( says Mr. Turner, in his elegant and lively history of the Anglo Saxons) adopt these frightful creatures, but protects the genuine gigantic race. The Risar, Bergrisar, Bergbuar,( from whence perhaps our Bugbear) Jotnar and Thossar.
Stanza 16, line 7.
" But lent his spirit to each passing sail."
This is no solecism; as the ocean and its" steeds" are visible from the summits of most of these mountains.
Stanza 17, line 9.
" For in one day did each to his green tomb descend."
I extract the following from the Venerable Bede's Ecclesiastical History.
" There was a certain priest, revered for his uprightness and perfect life and manners, named Herberte, who had a long time been in union with the man of God( Saint Cuthbert of Farn Isle) in the bond of spiritual love and friendship. For, living a solitary life in the isle of that great and extended lake, from whence proceeds the river of Derwent, he used to visit Saint Cuthbert every year, to receive from his lips the doctrine of eternal life. When this holy priest heard of Saint Cuthbert's coming to Lugubalia, he came after his usual manner, desiring to be comforted more and more with the hopes of everlasting bliss by his divine exhortations. As they sate together, and enjoyed the hopes of heaven, among other things the bishop said,' Remember, brother Herberte, that whatsoever ye have to say and ask of me, you do it now, for after we depart hence, we shall not meet again, and see one another corporally in this world; for I know well the time of my dissolution is at hand, and the laying aside of this earthly tabernacle draweth on apace.' When Herberte heard this, he fell down at his feet, and with many sighs and tears beseeched him, for the love of the Lord, that he would not forsake him, but to remember his faithful brother and associate, and make intercession with the gracious God, that they might depart hence into heaven together, to behold His grace and glory, whom they had in unity of spirit served on earth. ' For you know I have ever studied and laboured to live according to your pious and virtuous instructions; and in whatsoever I offended or omitted, through ignorance and frailty, I straightway used my earnest efforts to amend after your ghostly counsel, will, and judgment.' At this earnest and affectionate request of Herberte's, the bishop went to prayer, and presently being certified in spirit that his petition to heaven would be granted,--' Arise,' saith he,' my dear brother, weep not, but let your rejoicing be with exceeding gladness; for the great mercy of God hath granted unto us our prayer.' The truth of which promise and prophecy was well proved in that which ensued; for their separation was the last that befel them on earth: on the same day, which was the 19th day of March, their souls departed from their bodies, and were straight in union in the beatific sight and vision; and were transported hence to the kingdom of heaven, by the service and hands of angels."
Stanza 18, line 6.
" Rears her myrtle bower."
The Ggale, or Dutch myrtle, grows in great profusion in the neighbourhood of this lake.
Stanza 32, line 9.
" The hallowed Pix received."
The pix was a box, or dove, of goldsmith's work, which contained the host. It hung under the ciborium, or canopy over the altar; and was esteemed so sacred, that Henry V. delayed his army a whole day to discover the thief who had stolen one.
 Fosbrook's British Monachism.
Stanza 33, line 6.
" The intricate Triforia."
The triforium was a passage, or gallery, that ran round the church; there was one generally to each story, the use of which was probably to facilitate the hanging of the tapestry, lights,& c., on festivals.
line 7.
" Their snowy albs."
A kind of surplice-- the white garment that Herod put on Christ.
Stanza 36, line 8.
" In the weird vellum."
The word is here used in its ancient sense of holy, or sacred.-- Vide Douce's Shakspeare.
Stanza 2, line 4.
" To high Blencathra's ravine-rifted head."
Blencathra is the ancient name of Saddleback, which I could wish to see restored to it again.
Stanza 5, line 4.
" Dale of the Barrow."-- Borrowdale.
Stanza 6, line 2.
" The mystic winds."
" The water of Derwentwater is subject to violent agitations, and often without any apparent cause, as was the case this day. The weather was calm, yet the waves ran a great height, and the boat was violently tossed with what is called a bottom-wind."
 Pennant's Tour.
" Often when all is calm and resplendent around, as the boat is plying its steady way along the glassy lake, the boatman will descry at a distance a violent ebullition of the water. He will see it heave and swell, forced upwards by some internal convulsion, and suffering all the agitation of a storm. But as soon as the confined air has spent its force, the agitated surface immediately subsides, and dies away in lessening circles. Of these bottom-winds, also, we meet with frequent accounts, particularly in some of the Swedish lakes, which are very subject to them."
 Gilpin's Tour.
Stanza 7, line 2.
" The only ray that heaven had then dispensed, Illumined once what these rude masses fenced; Light of the primal, patriarchal mind."
Rowland, Stukely, Borlase, and Wood, are said by Mr. King, in his Munimenta Antiqua, to be the best writers on the Druidical religion. A very satisfactory digest of the whole subject, supported by the best authorities, will be found in Dr. Borlase's Antiquities of Cornwall. Dr. Stukely, who has been charged with" fancies and reveries" on these subjects, took the circle near Keswick for the grave of an arch Druid. The appendage of an enclosed rectangular recess of ten stones attached to the inner area of the circle at the eastern side, is certainly peculiar to this structure; but is, I think, justly considered as no decisive, or even reasonable support of Dr. Stukely's inference. I have regarded it as one of their Llans, or groves, in which they promulgated their doctrines, and performed their religious rites. As such, during a twenty - five years' residence in its neighbourhood, with occasional intervals of absence, I have never visited it but with feelings of the deepest interest, from a train of thought it invariably suggested, and which has slightly diffused itself into this and the two following stanzas.
" The congruity of the use and application of our ancient sacred places with that of the Jewish Proseuchae, and Sanctuaries, is no mean argument of their being both derived from one pattern, viz. the most ancient patriarchal practice."
 Rowland's Mona. Antiqua.
Stanza 7, line 7.
" Here oral theorems and placits flowed On barbarous soil."
Though the Druids are known to have been acquainted with the Greek letters, for Caesar expressly mentions it of those in Gaul; yet their learning was never comprised in a written code. They taught their pupils, who are said to have flocked to them from all parts, and promulgated their doctrines, by oral precepts, after the manner of the ancient Jewish Cabala; an argument for the priority of their institute to the invention of letters, and its immediate derivation from the Hebrew, or Patriarchal Monatheism. Mochus the Sidonian, from whose placits Pythagoras and other Greek philosophers drew so largely, is supposed by Selden to have been no other than Moses himself: these placits were embodied in the Druidical doctrines, which are reasonably supposed by the best authorities to be derived from the primitive patriarchal code of Abraham, and the" statutes of the sons of Noah," a sum, or abstract probably( says Rowland), of those given to Adam by God himself.
Stanza 8, line 5.
" And worship gave To Titan chiefs."
" The stream of idolatry towards the latter end of their time bore strong upon them, and deflected them from their professed Monatheism to give divine worship to Medioxumate gods, such as Taranis( Jupiter); Hesus( Mars); Belus( Belatucadrus, i.e. Bel y duw Cadarn); Teutales, Belin( i.e. Ap Heulin, or Apollo); Diana, and some say, Mercury,& c. -- these errors had crept in lately among them, or they worshipped the one God under these several titles or appellations."
 Rowland's Mona. Antiqua. Restorata.
line 6.
" And in oblation shed Even human blood."
" They( the Druids) made the people believe in the necessity of human sacrifices to appease the divinity; they selected the victim themselves, which put the people into whatever posture they pleased, and was the chief prop of their authority."
 Ibid.
Stanza 9, line 2.
" Than when the Mitzoth's light."
The Mitzoth was the sacred Patriarchal Rubric.
Stanza 9, line 4.
" The Flamen's torch obscene."
The Flamens, or Roman priests, were established in all the places in which the Druidical altars had been overthrown.
line 6.
" We from the fountain drew One early rill."
Gildas asserts positively, that the Britons received the light of the gospel as early as the latter end of Tiberius's reign; he studied and lived at Bangor,( the archives of which seminary were all destroyed when the priests were massacred by the Saxons, at the instance, no doubt, of St. Austin), and speaks from some then uncontroverted record or tradition, saying-- We know,& c. -- Who was this early Apostle? -- was it Joseph of Arimathea? ( by one of the Phoenician ships)-- there is a story at Glastonbury of his having visited Britain. As a member of the Jewish Sanhedrim, might he not convey himself away to some distant land, that he might not be questioned about Christ's body( which he buried) before his resurrection? there is no mention made of him in the transactions of the ten years that succeeded that event. If Gildas is to be depended on, as he seems certain of what he relates, the faith, whether by Joseph, or any other person, was received here sooner than at Rome itself, where it is not pretended by the Romans themselves, that Saint Peter arrived earlier than the second year of Claudius, at least five years after the death of Tiberius. Our kings and bishops, it is well known, challenged and obtained precedency in great Synods and Conventions from many neighbouring kingdoms, from the priority of their reception of the Christian faith.
 See the Mona. Antiqua, Restorata.
line 8.
" At length the full stream flowed."
The arrival of Saint Augustine, and conversion of the Saxons.
Stanza 10, line 2.
" Green Crag's tower-like brow."
" In the widest part of the dale( St. John's Vale,) you are struck with the appearance of an ancient ruined castle, which rises from the summit of a little mount; the mountains around forming an august amphitheatre. These massive bulwarks show a front apparently of various towers, making an awful, rude, and gothic figure, with their shaken walls and ragged battlements: this whole figure of a powerful fortress, is no other than a separate, broken, an ragged rock, called Green Crag, which stands threatening the valley."
 Hutchinson's History of Cumberland.
" T traveller's curiosity is roused, and he prepares to make a nearer approach: when his curiosity is put upon the rack, by being assured that if he advances, certain genii who govern the place by virtue of their supernatural arts and necromancy, will strip it of all its beauties, and, by enchantment, transform the magic walls. The vale seems adapted for the habitation of such beings;-- there was no delusion in the report, we were soon convinced of its truth; for this piece of antiquity, so venerable and noble in its aspect, as we drew near, changed its figure, and proved no other than a shaken massive pile of rocks, which stand in the midst of this little vale, disunited from the adjoining mountains; and have so much the real form and resemblance of a castle, that they bear the name of' The castle rocks of Saint John's.'"
 Excursion to the Lakes.
line 6.
" Where every step, Ausonia, vies with thee."
The western shore of Therlemere is seldom visited; its superior style of beauty being not anticipated by travellers, who content themselves with viewing the country from its high roads only.
Stanza 11, line 2.
" Beneath this Pagan heap."
As a poet, I have adopted the popular story of the last king of Cumberland. " Historic doubts" I leave to the antiquary, they would come with a bad grace from me.
Stanza 15, line 3.
" Her fatal love and Edwy's."
The story of Edwy and Elgiva, as related in every school abridgement of the history-- see note to Stanza 24, Canto 2.
Stanza 19, line 4.
" Whose crown, his right, now decked a stranger's brow."
Edmund gave the kingdom of Cumberland to Malcolm king of Scotland.
Stanza 25, line 3.
" A hurdled panoply his front displays."
The Britons are said to have used a covering-hurdle in battle.
Stanza 27, line 2.
" But naught could chill The Cymri blood."
" But age never cooled the Douglas' blood."
 Sir Walter Scott.
line 6.
" An arch inverted seemed Of bodies slain."
The defile of the mountains which close the valley of Wythburn to the south, assumes this figure.
Stanza 28, line 8.
" No bordel decked the vale, no logge the fell."
 Bordel is no doubt derived from the ancient British Bod, a small round dwelling: logge, though of the same family originally, is the parent of the modern lodge.
" Giff thou wouldst nature in perfection find, Go search the logges and bordels of the hind."
 Chatterton( but I quote from memory).
Stanza 31, line 8.
" The mountains groan."
" Before the storm begins to rage, they( the mountains of Bendoran) emit a hollow sound which forbodes it. The shepherd knows it well, and instantly shelters his flock."
 Gilpin's Tour. Scotland.
Stanza 40, line 7.
" A broken leaf, I'm driven to and fro."
" Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro."
 Job xiii. 25.
Stanza 45, line 1.
" The Wahrift you so praised."
This was a sort of tapestry, or hanging, for warmth. The Saxon halls must have required them; as we are told that king Alfred was obliged to use lanthorns to preserve the lights from being extinguished.
Stanza 48, line 4.
" If Edwin's fate I sang."
Athelstan, jealous of the rising popularity of his younger brother Edwin, committed him, in a shattered boat without oars, to the ocean, in which he perished. Athelstan was ever after a prey to remorse of conscience.
Stanza 49, line 1.
" May Zernbeck,"& c.
This, the Author of Waverley informs us, was the ancient Saxon Apollyon, or evil spirit.
 Ivanhoe.
Stanza 2, line 1.
" Vale of Saint Patrick."
Patterdale is so poeticised by Cumberland, in his Ode to the Sun.
Stanza 3, line 9.
" The lake-- the mountains seemed( Though smaller) those of which in childhood he has dreamed."
On revisiting the scenes of early youth, after an absence of more than twenty years, I was forcibly struck with the comparative smallness of the objects that had, during that interval, remained impressed upon my memory. The Chiltern hills were only half the distance from the town( Watlington, Oxon,) and half the height that I expected to have found them; the house in which I had resided five years, and the market-house, in which was the school-room, were equally degraded in their physical importance, and the deception had obtained in respect of almost every other object, of consequence enough to have maintained its place in the memory. I record this as a psychological fact occurring to myself, but know not whether it is a peculiarity of my own perceptions, or founded more generally in the nature of the human mind. I was removed from this school at twelve years of age; on revisiting the school, which I left at the age of sixteen, after a still longer interval of absence, a similar discrepancy of reminiscence did not in the slightest degree occur. Wordsworth mentions a similar feeling in a sonnet beginning,
" Beloved vale, I said, when I shall con those many records of my childish years."
Stanza 4, line 7.
" That scene before him lay."
The scene here portrayed lies on the road from Patterdale to Kirkstone, where it passes over a bare rock, with the mountains rising abruptly from wooded bases on the left.
Stanza 11, line 3.
" Till to a lonely thwaite."
A thwaite was a portion of ground cleared of wood, for residence or cultivation.
Stanza 13, line 5.
" The fyrd."
This was the Saxon militia.
Stanza 16, line 6.
" The Quida."
The well-known death-song of Ragnar Lodbrog, composed in the Northumbrian dungeon.
Stanza 17, line 2.
" On Ella wreaked."
The blood curdles on reading Mr. Turner's account of the torments on Ella king of Northumbria( or rather Deira), when taken prisoner by the sons of Lodbrog, in retaliation for the cruel death to which he had consigned that piratical scald. " They cut the figure of an eagle on his back, divided his ribs to tear out his lungs, and agonised his lacerated flesh by the addition of the saline stimulant." The place where he fell was near York, and was in Brompton's time called Ellercroft.
Stanza 17, line 7
" The Reafan lost, a panic struck the foe."
The reafan, or raven, was the magical standard of the Northmen; its capture overwhelmed them with dismay.
Stanza 18, line 5.
" For lo! the raging flames The convent's towers enfold."
In Cooke's Topography of Great Britain( Northumberland) I find the following passage, but the aera of the event does not exactly accord with that of my legend. Ebba, the devoted abbess, is there said to be the daughter of Edilfrid, king of Northumberland, who, in referring to the Saxon history, I find to be Ethelred the First, who overthrew the Danes at Assendon the year after the destruction of the monasteries of Bradney, Crowland, Peterborough, Ely, Huntingdon, Coldingham,& c.
" This lady( Ebba) was the daughter of Edelfred, king of Northumberland, and when her father was taken prisoner by the Pagan Mercians, she got into a boat on the Humber, with three other females, who by their own prayers only, were miraculously preserved, and carried as far as Scotland; where, under a promontory, they were driven on shore by a storm, and their boat dashed in pieces. When they got on shore, they laboured with their hands, and made themselves a small hut to lodge in; they continued their religious way of living, and the country people sustained them with food; till at length acquiring a great character by their sanctity and austerity, they were addressed far and near, for their prayers; and by the charity of the people were enabled to build a religious house at Coldingham. Here, as fame says, when the Danes came on shore, the religious lady( who it seems was very beautiful) cut off her nose and upper lip, and made all the nuns do the same, in order to preserve their chastity; whereupon the barbarous Danes, enraged at their zeal, fired their nunnery, and burnt them all alive. From this lady, who it is said was sainted for these sufferings, the promontory where she landed is to this day called Saint Ebbeshead, and vulgarly, Saint Tabbe's"
Miscellaneous Pieces. 
To Derwent Water. On Leaving Keswick, In November, 1801. 
Derwent, adieu! again I bend my way From thy green glades and sedge-indented streams, Adieu thy fields with many a blossom gay, Thy waving willows, and thy evening gleams; I must not linger on the mazy scene, Nor meet at morn thy hawthorn-scented gales, I must not mount thy rugged hills of green, Nor sport with health, along thy winding vales.
Fantastic Water! simple, rude, and gay, Where Nature wantons in her primal bowers, Where lonely Leisure still delights to stray, And toy unnoticed with the moving Hours, Of have I roved-- the sacred influence high! Your lowly gale-grown paths, and thickets through, And as the Lake Boy whistled heedless by, Joyed in your solemn rocks, and hills of melting blue.
Or when to eve the white star faintly shone, And Luna laboured over the trackless fell, What time the folder hears the mandrake's moan, By sparkling tarn, or down the haunted dell; In fancy peopled every lawn and bay From bards renowned, who won my youthful ear, Light fairies dauncing round the fragrant hay, And wraiths and warlocks by the rush-grown mere:
Or called to memory many a classic song, And fabled isle, and old romantic grove; Saw pensive Dido stalk the shore along, Or Hero's nightly torch, so true to love; Or sped my thoughts to Caermot's battle plain, Where woods and wilds, a vast expanse, are seen, Bleak Mona's caves, where frets the misty main, And Scotia's winding friths, and hills for ever green.
Or Enner's slighted dale-- romantic place! In whose cold bosom Gilthwaite rises bold, A seeming isle, round whose enchanting base The lingering Lira pours her waves of gold, Where oft,'t is said, the traveller sees above The scowling tempest dull, the beam of day, While all below the tranquil zephyrs move, And bear on viewless wings the sweets of May:
Or huge Helvellyn, from whose hoary top Slopes many a pastoral down, and valley deep, Where grassy fountains, cool, invite to stop, Ere yet you, fainting, gain the utter steep. Hence have I seen the awful landscape spread Over mountain glooms to many a distant lea; Wild Striding Edge, Glenridden's storm-vexed head, The Cove's dark tarn, and Black Crag's misty scree.
Nor yet forgot, Wat Enla's rugged vale, Where tawny streams through rifted ravines roar; Where frugal man foregoes the balmy gale, And deems his barren heath some golden shore. ' Neath the rude knoll his lonely hut is seen; The Parian porch he scorns, and splendid dome; Here grandeur rules the still, majestic scene, And Rosa's genius haunts the solemn gloom.
Thou too, Ashness! mid many a rock sublime, High screened in air, thy rugged prospects gave; Nor small the joy thy broomy paths to climb, And pore uncloyed upon thy lucent wave. Oh! blest the fields, where memory loves to rove, Where liveliest joys my grateful thoughts incline; Here first I heard the flattering lip of love, And won her heart, whose hand at length is mine!
Sweet scenes! as yet unsung by British shell, Soon shall ye court a happier strain than mine, Some future Collins shall your glories tell, And every zephyr breathe in every line: Ah, hapless poet! had thy lyre been strung, Where fringy Lowdore holds the setting beam, How sweet! how sad! how solemn hadst thou flung Thy wild rhyme, murmuring with the falling stream!
But, ah! why paint the fondly fancied prize; Oh, England's shame! neglect had hushed thy tongue, I see thy meek indignant spirit rise, And rend the strain that angels might have sung. But see! pale Winter spreads her wonted gloom, And onwards, rustling, drifts the leafy sere; Sweet scenes! for ever fade, for ever bloom, And find me constant with the changing year.
Again I go, where other joys invite, The social hour and friendship's changeless eye; Where frolic fashion still consumes the night, And art and fancy bid reflection fly. Yet, Derwent! there, thy form shall memory trace, And each loved feature over my mind diffuse, And oft shall fancy steal a kindling grace, As her light visions urge the slumbering muse.
Still may the Niads seek at blazing noon Thy dark retreats and ivy-crested cave; Still fly, exhausted by the mid-day sun, To dip their tresses in thy azure wave! And when the sultry winds and watery clouds, From out sweet Newlands, on thy landscape lean, In thy dark vales and deep impervious woods, Be they safe sheltered from the wasting scene!
Still may Britannia to thy shores retire, And spread thy fame wherever her own shall fly; Still may her sons with sacred taste admire, And beauty linger with approving eye! May Nature, solely, over thy scenes preside, Thy calm retreats no noisy arts invade; May never sordid sail thy waves divide, Nor daring woodman waste thy genial shade!
For not with thee shall Scotia's Lomond vie, Or wild Killarney, Erin's boast and pride; Or Bala's flowery banks, that shadeless lie By Druid Menai, on the Cambrian tide: For not with thee shall sister Grassmere wave Her groves of birch amid the scented gale; Or smooth Ullswater, that the poet gave With fame to live, till strains like his shall fail.
Admiring bard! whose breast to nature true, So well the charms of" Patrick's Dale" could sing, Mid Derwent's loftier scenes thy theme renew, And sense and sweetness every Muse shall bring; The landscape group that haunt at morn the wave, Or spread sublime the streaks of closing day, Shall round thee loiter, till thy genius save Whatever is grand or fair in thy undying lay. Alba nautis stella refulsit. -- Hor.
 At Caermot, three miles from the foot of Bassenthwaite lake, are the remains of a Roman encampment from the site of which is seen one of the finest views imaginable.
 The fine scenery of Borrowdale is properly an appendage to Derwent Water; which may perhaps, with many, justify the preference I have given to this lake over the others here mentioned. Mr. Cumberland gave the ascendancy to Ullswater; his" Ode to the Sun" is alluded to here.
On The Death Of Burns. 
Let Scotland's harp be now resumed, Alone to wake the pensive tear, For, lo! by pining care consumed, Her Burns has pressed the funeral bier.
No more is heard in Coila's glade The rustic bard's untutored strain; But Pity lonely walks the shade, And vainly seeks to soothe her pain.
Though Nature's child! he only poured To her his wild and thrilling song; His loss by all is now deplored, And classic bards augment the throng.
Who now, with sweetly varied note, The sultry summer's pride shall sing? Or mould the shades that formless float On wizard fancy's fairy wing?
Who now, when manic winter drives Over mountain tops his misty car, Shall catch the power unseen that strives, And truly paint the flying war?
And yet to thee, poor hapless hind! The sultry summer smiled in vain; A foil to thy care-harassed mind, That but, alas! enhanced its pain.
And when congenial winter bowed, With howling voice and snowy hair, His icy mirror only showed, Thy breast, a deadlier winter there.
Showed to thine own according eyes, What frailer bards refuse to see, The ill in passion's path that lies-- The ill partook, and wept by thee.
Remote, in robes of varied hue, Her dole, at times, Compassion gave, But cold her smile-- and transient too As winter-gleams on Lomond's wave;
Yet now thouert gone, alas! no more Unmoved she marks thy early doom; But oft down Ayr's deserted shore Inquires at eve, thy grassy tomb.
There still, in vales where broom-clad burns To her embraces slowly ooze, The far-off village bell returns On fancy's ear the mournful news;
And there shall pillowed thought retire From Caledonia's peaceful cot, And mark thee sweep thy thrilling lyre, And proudly bear thy humble lot.
And Taste, henceforth, shall seek the bower, So sacred now to Love and Song; And kindred bosoms crowd the shore Where Doon's new stream devolves along.
When morning wakes the sylvan scene, And shows the tangled wood on high, The hind shall miss thee over the green, And mutely heave a sturdy sigh.
At eve, when warlocks thither bend, And toil-spent cotters wander home, Shall village groups the dance suspend, With wreaths to deck their poet's tomb.
And haply there, at dead of night, When Cynthia hides her silvery flag, While rushing storms, in wild affright, Sweep dreadful down thy favourite crag,
Some rude, unlettered friend shall pace The charnelled-yard that boasts thy clay, And bid creative fancy trace Thy chiding spirit glide away.
But ah! nor fancy's wildering power, Nor yet thy country's fond regard, Nor sorrowing verse shall thee restore, Neglected!-- lost!-- lamented bard!To The Evening Star. 
Bright gem! by twilight's sober hour, So sweetly heaven-ward dost thou gleam, I love, beneath the leaf-strewn bower, To mark thy pale, unconscious beam.
Then does my soul with thee partake A fire that burns serenely bright; Then do no cares my bosom wake, Save cares that court the wings of night.
Oh matchless gem!-- that sober glow Well suits the heart that once was mine; Say, do those eyes invoke thee now, Whose mildness only yields to thine?
Say-- by some unfrequented stream, Does Evening lead her steps to thee? And does thy soft reflected beam Bring back her thoughts once more to me?
If so, resume thy gentle sway Each night when Zephyr haunts the grove; And oh! with unassuming ray, Still bind the thoughts of her I love.On The Death Of An Only Sister. Beloved of all! bewailed in virtue's tears! By life a Christian, in the bloom of years-- Death menaced long, nor struck the fatal dart-- Till Faith, exulting, triumphed at her heart! Vain were the pangs that tore her from our eyes, Vain promised years to hold her from the skies; In flower of youth for happier realms she sighed, Blessed all she left below-- blessed God, and died.
On The Same Occasion. 
The Innocent's Grave. 
Oh! cold is the gale, and the tempest is driving, Bleak eve spreads her wings over the high mounting wave, The elements rage, and are seemingly striving Which most shall complain over an Innocent's grave.
Oh mortal! did sweetness, some female adorning, From the gay crowds of life ever draw thee aside? Had her cheek the vermilion of life's early morning-- Her form, was it faultless-- her heart free from pride?
Oh mortal! still rarer! the sky-gifted tear-- Would it dim the fine eye heaven formed for delight? Was she meek, unaffected, gay, pious, sincere, And ah! as thou gazed, was she snatched from thy sight?
If so, feel for him, who now heaves the sad sigh, That no art from the tomb so much virtue could save; And oh! dropt a tear as thou wanderest by, Over the relics that sleep in this Innocent's grave.Lines On Seeing Some Children Run Out Of School. 
Across the green with many a dock overgrown, From school set free, the village children fly: Mark how in air their gladsome arms are thrown, As pleased again to view the cheerful sky; Mark the broad smile, oh nature, still thy own! That lights the lustre of each artless eye.
Home to their cottage joys they cheerful go-- No doubt disturbs their uninquiring minds, No fear that gladness is the source of woe, No knowledge withering every flower it finds. Pleased with some rustic sport, or glittering toy, With vacant minds and spirits ever gay, Each passing moment brings some transient joy, And all their little griefs fleet fast away.
Ah why! when morning yields a calm so sweet, Throb your young bosoms for the sultry hour? Does hope, delusive, lure your infant feet, And like some syren, point her shadowy bower? Oh! still, sweet innocents, dream no deceit, And pluck, as on ye go, the blooming flower.To Simplicity. 
Thou who didst touch the heart in elder time! When first the immortal lyre on earth was strung, Sweet maid! from Truth and Nature surely sprung, Ah! once again, inspire my artless rhyme: Thou of Apollo loved!-- of that sweet band The first that danced in Tempe's primal grove With measured step, and soft prevailing hand, The soul of grace, and majesty, and love! Unwont to dwell where luxury abides, And low caprice-- Conceit's assured child-- Yet not unknown where that sweet bard resides Who sung the maid's high call, and visions wild, And Merlin's crystal ark, eneath the green deep beguiled;
Yet not unknown, where classic shades invite Him who retraced Ausonia's sacred springs, Who to the muse, a sparing tribute brings, Such as the Tuscan ear might well delight; To him again thy largest influence lend, And bid on Mersey's banks the lyre awake, Till over the stream the wondering Dryads bend, And through the enchanted woods their way betake. Not Ora then shall more melodious flow, Where the sweet Sisters long did lingering stay, Than he that ocean-ways so proud does go, Whose quivering alders now do idly play His branching rills among, that steal unsoothed away. When sharded beetles wing their dusky flight, And labour rests upon his drowsy bed; When horned owlets by the pole-star led Behind the curtained hills infest the night, Then dost thou love the quiet heath to tread, Where no rill murmurs on thy dewy way, Around thy limbs a pearly moon-beam spread, That does thy mystic charms the more bewray,-- Low shines the light upon the green sea wave, The tender stars in sweet accordance sing, Favonius lingers in his ocean cave, Nor longs to lift upon his wanton wing[ ling. The night-locked balm that sleeps along the empurpled-- Oh, maid beloved! over British song once more, While Nature sways, thy charmed sweetness breathe, With bared arms prepare the Doric wreathe Thy favourite won, by Mulla's willowy shore: So shall each breast the soothing numbers prize, And bards assign to each melodious stream-- New Goldsmiths then, new Chattertons shall rise, And all the Muses' power once more redeem. Me too, presumptuous, should I dare the lyre, Or bid with mimic life the canvass glow, With thy bland smile the high design inspire, Over the sweet toil thy chastening graces throw, Till soft and polished minds the mead of praise bestow.Lines Written In December. 
Ye pines! whose arched canopy sublime, So late was conscious of my changeless vow, How vain your shelter to this bosom now, Since love disastrous claims the plaintive rhyme: Ye woods! divested of your green attire-- Bare, ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang: Ye brambled paths, where winter-berries hang, Welcome to me, and to my sorrowing lyre! I, that your glories could delight so late, Thoughts kindred seek to those my bosom fill, Naught but the solemn drops the rocks distil, Naught but the ring-dove widowed of her mate; Yet shall sweet spring revive again the year, And April suns your mossy banks illume, And wrens delighted, warble midst your bloom,-- Ah! will some answering chord then vibrate here!
A Lesson For My Infant Daughter. 
A pretty little mouse, they say, As pretty as a mouse could be, Came with her mother forth one day, To see whatever she could see.
" Good luck! mamma, good luck!" she cried," Come this way quickly, if you please, A dainty on this shelf I' spied-- As I'm a mouse, a lump of cheese!"
" Forbear, my child," the mother said," To do what you are going to do; That cheese was there by Susan laid, To catch some little fool, like you.
" Between those wires, if you should squeeze Your limber limbs,'t will be in vain, When you have eat that lump of cheese, You try to squeeze them back again."
" Oh, dear mamma! you but cajole Your little child, to tell her so, I never yet went through a hole But I came back with ease, you know."
" But see!" replied the cautious mother," Those wires to thee are treacherous foes,-- One way they'll stretch from one another, The other way they'll prick your nose."
To dine, however, she was bent, And little miss would not be daunted, So in the silly mouseling went, And eat the cheese she so much wanted.
" You cannot think how good the rind, Mamma-- old Stilton, I suppose! Now back to you my way I'll find; Oh dear, these wires! they prick my nose."
Too late, alas! too late she found How precious is a mother's care,-- Had she believed, as she was bound, She had not now I ween been there.
Then Susan to the closet came, And with her came the cat, to sup;" Here puss," she cried," I've caught my game, Here, eat this silly mouseling up!"Sonnet To The Lily Of The Valley. ( Said To Grow In The Shade.) Nursling that lov beneath the dew-sprent shade To bathe thy modest, meek retiring head Unseen where Phoebus low, with silver tread, Lights his pale fires and warms the fragrant glade; Lone wanderer sure from some enameled bank, Where love propitious pours the enraptured sigh; Delighting here, midst reeds and rushes dank, To waste thy bloom unmarked by vulgar eye. Ah! not of Flora, and the Zephyr mild I deem thee sprung, but from that silver tear Idalia, sorrowing for Adonis dear, In secret shed, far in the Cyprian wild-- Since then, despairing love has sought thy bower, And hopeless sighs have nursed thee-- modest flower!
Lines Left In The Cradle Of My Eighth Child. 
From what calm orb of light and life, Cam thou, my sweet, my lovely boy? Alas! this scene of care and strife, Too soon will damp that smile of joy.
Do angles in that sphere above, Where thy pure spirit dwelt before, Do angels wear that look of love, When they their Maker's name adore?
Sure seraphs wept, and lent thee each, Some winning grace or motion bland, That thou the earthly heart might reach, And touch its springs with heavenly wand.
Thy cheek the cygnet's down might shame, The morning star thy playful eye, That dove-note has as yet no name Save that it bore in yonder sky.
Say, hast thou erred in that blest place, Where souls all pure alone must dwell-- And art thou doomed, a fallen race To join, some lawless flame to quell?
That smile rebukes the wandering thought; No, no, my babe! to me't is clear, Hadst thou with heavenly sin been fraught, Thou hadst not come a seraph here.
Then oh! may He who being gave, Preserve thee still from satan's arts, Thy youth from vice and folly save, And find thee pure when life departs.
But balmy sleep with downy tread, I see thy pearly lids has prest, And on thy couch, all graceful spread, Thy tiny fingers softly rest.
Sleep on, my babe, thy mother's smile Shall meet thee when thou wak again--' T is free, as is thine own, from guile;' T is pure, as is thy father's strain.Markstay. A Reminiscence. 
Why does my heart with rapture beat, Markstay! to view thy calm retreat? No hills in gorgeous foliage drest Thy low, wide-spreading fields invest, No torrents foam thy vales along, Responsive to the warbled song; Nor hoary mountain lifts its head, On which the parting sun may tread-- Not more obscure thy poet's name, Markstay! than is thine own to fame, Yet on my heart comes joy anew As I thy peaceful scenes review.
And do I trace with ardent eye The hallowed haunts of infancy; And do I tread with paces stayed The fields where bounding childhood played, And tossed the ball with careless glee, Or chased the wren from tree to tree? No, no;'t is but on memory's chain I now revisit thee again, And through the mist of fifty years, Retouch the joys, the hopes, the fears, That by its strange mysterious power Smile on the gloomy present hour, Still holding on its slender thread The being gone that else were dead. How awful is the arch of years, That shadows all that memory bears!
How chequered is the lapse of time, With vice, with folly, or with crime! What fruitless wishes wander back, To tread again the barren track, To stem once more Temptation's tide With sage Experience by my side, And Wisdom's hand my course to guide. Markstay! since over my infant head Five joyous summer suns had sped, In retrospective thoughts alone On me thy summer suns have shone; But fancy oft has decked thy fields With more perchance than nature yields, And I have loved-- I know not why, Thy Eden of my mental eye.
Say, Mrs. Maycroft, learned dame! Ah! where is now thy village fame? And where art thou, from whom I drew The horn-book lore I early knew? Trembling, again on thy first form Methinks I sit, and dread the storm That when thou raised from off thy nose Thy spectacles, too surely rose-- And where are they who shared with me The halcyon noon of liberty? One only name of all the train Does partial memory retain, For he of Bunyard's special grace Alone of all the group might trace With me" the rolling circle's speed," Or lime the linnet down the mead-- But name alone her traces spare-- Nor form, nor feature linger there! The garden, still with bees alive I see-- but most that fatal hive In which, when Lucy's back was turned, My drumming-stick I plunged, and earned A martyrdom of pain, but scorned To warn her who in vain had warned;-- The London Road, and that which led I know not where, but gravelled red; The rick-yard, with its barn and tank, So green, I wondered Smiler drank; The half - circling moat-- forbidden ground! Where sailed the swan his stately round, The bridge; the beauteous shrubbery, Where white-balled roses used to vie With lilac and laburnum bowers, And winding beds of choicer flowers-- The ideal still, where fancy sped Whenever of Paradise I read. The dear paternal dome I see-- The proud, yet modest rectory, Where first my bosom learned to trill With scenes of fondness cherished still-- Each room in deathless form survives, Nor step, nor stair with memory strives--' T was there alone a father's care My bosom knew-- alas!'t was there A mother in her shroud I kissed, But knew not what it was I missed-- The cavalcade and flaunting row Of sable plumes were but a show: The tender thought, the pious care! I knew not that they slumbered there. I gazed-- and as they moved away, Resumed again my wonted play-- Blest season! when the heart is spared, And every ill, with rapture shared. Nor blameless is the backward view, To days that care nor sorrow knew; For pleasure early led astray, And pride confirmed the syren's sway-- The stream of life, where pearls abound, I left for unpropitious ground, With here and there a sunny slope, Where I would nurse some golden hope; Still withering disappointment came, And vain regret, and sullen shame. And now what more remains to me, But bitter fruits of memory? For they that once my heart consoled Are now, alas! estranged or cold, Or tossed on fortune's fickle wave, Or slumbering in the silent grave-- And love, celestial in his birth, Is now become a child of earth-- The generous, all-confiding mind Of youth, to every failing blind-- Devotion that disdained control, The loosened tremors of the soul-- The electric glance-- the thrilling kiss, To me are now remembered bliss; For passion rules with milder sway,' T is dotage, now!-- idolatry!
Markstay! I chide not fate, that still She leads not to thy silver rill,-- I would not that again we met, Thy charms are charms in distance set; Nor would I, if I could, review The hallowed spot my childhood knew; For well I know that on that day Thy fairy realm would fade away, And one more sweet illusion cease To sooth my heart as years increase. My father's housekeeper.
 On The Death Of Lord Byron.
What bring thou, Rumour? thy visage is pale,' T is tinged with the sun and the ocean gale,-- Thou com from the isles of the struggling Greek; But of more than of them do thy syllables speak. I've heard thee afore, of the Mussulman's ire, His remorseless sword, and his wasting fire.
I've heard from thy blasts, of the Christian's story, The blood that they poured on the plains of their glory; Of the burning pile, and the slaughtering blade, Of the laugh of the saint, and the shriek of the maid; But never, as now, didst thou tremble to blow From thy dissonant trump, thy tidings of woe.
I marvel not now at thy faltering breath, He is gone! he is gone to the valley of death! The idol of Britain-- the lord of her lyre, His hand is stilled, and quenched his fire-- Hang high your harps, ye sons of song! Or none but the dirges of woe prolong.
A mystery hangs on his mighty name, He stands apart on the mountain of Fame: There are some that have drank at its purer springs, There are some that have flown on more pruned wings, But who over its summit so high could soar? Or who go so deep for its golden ore?
With his lyre, as a child with its bauble, he played; But his master-hand our bosoms swayed-- His were the heavens, the earth, and the ocean, Still deeper than passion he startled emotion; Sarcastic and tender, by turns was his lay, He laughed at the solemn and wept at the gay.
He loved not the Edens of earth to rove, Or their drooping flowers to braid for love; But the electric flash of a stormy cloud, Or Beauty laid in her burial shroud, Or shapes that call by the creaking yews, Were the fettering spells of his mystic muse.
His home was the high Alp's brumal head, Where the Rhone is a rill in its icy bed, And the Seven Hills had a kindred gloom, Where Art came young, and found her tomb; And Leander's feat and fame were his own, For the tower of love and its torch were gone!
He homed where man had immortal grown, Where art had a temple, or nature a throne; He trod the blue fields of the starry dome, And found in their hyaline paths a home; From thought's deep abysm he miracles brought, And rich gems of fancy that none had sought.
Mourn! ravaged Greece-- for thy Byron mourn! For thy summer isles were his loved sojourn. He saw young Liberty start on thy shore, And flew to her aid, like thy heroes of yore; Methinks, as his spirit went forth in thy air, Thy Homer, thy Pindar, thy Bion were there.
As he breathed his" last strain" to the day of his birth; Stood thy Sappho all mute on the trembling earth? Did ominous night-birds flap their wings, And the flowers fade at thy silver springs? Did the maid then lend her plaintive lyre, And say--" O bard!" and the swan expire?
Of Circe's bowl he had deeply drank, While his years were green, and the passions rank; But who art thou, that with scourge loose-handed, With the pitiless fiends of his bosom banded? That each frailty saw-- but couldst not see That his loosest strain had a moral for thee;
Think thou when he felt the maddening power, For thy creeping life heed have given an hour? Or when, as thyself, he grew blameless again, Have blotted one word for thy whole domain? In thy splendid saloons do no Venuses breathe-- Hast thou torn from the bust of thy Shakspeare its wreathe?
In the gem of pure water small flaws we deplore, Should it blush in the ruby we see them no more-- The pangs of remorse, not born of our fears, Are offerings to virtue received to her tears: There were spots on his disk he did not disown; But his virtues were lofty, and shadowed them down.
Oh, think! had his passions some counterpoise found, Or their ponderous helm had but steered on the ground, He had maundered perchance to some lady-lute; But Manfred had languished and Harold been mute; Then take the wild wealth of his soul-breathing lay, And in charity rest, if thou canst, with his clay.
" The dead never leave their house of gloom;" But thy voice, great bard! shall be heard from the tomb. In ages unborn shall the children of song, To love and to glory thy fame prolong, And thy spirit appeased, shall the green vales tread Of the land of thy birth till its language be dead.The Sceptic's Death. 
The night-mare has loosed her horrible reins, The scorch of the fever is in my veins, The clock has pealed from the steeple tower, It told of the murky night-noon hour; Visions of darkness flit around me, Terror in icy chains has bound me.
What art thou, that with vacant glare, Stand at my couch in the glazed air, Listening to catch my passing groan,' Tween the screech of the owl and the moon dog's moan, The slime of the worm is on thy heel, It tells of thee, and thy loathsome biel.
Thou didst not appal in my infant days, I saw thee afar, nor feared to gaze; Those lidless cells that no orbs filled, Were terrorless homes, where the wrens might build; Thy dart was only a perilous arrow, To launch at the martlet, or house-top sparrow.
When manhood came, I laughed and sung, Nor heard with dread thy tolling tongue, I did not wot of thy breath that seres The bloom of the cheek in the morn of its years, Nor the kings and the kaysers pashed by thee, In the dust of the earth, or the brine of the sea.
The valleys of life have lost their flowers, The ebb-tide of time has billowed my hours, From the last of its waves I giddily slide, To cling to the weed that lays loose on the tide, Oh! now, of all terrors art thou the king-- Oh, faith! oh, faith! for thy downy wing.
No longer vain-- oh, sheathe thy barb, And pride shall borrow the hermit's garb,-- Thy marrowless arm it will not spare; Why bristles thus my scant grey hair? What is it? what is it? that thou dost scrawl, With thy finger of bone, on the tottering wall?
Thou tell of the pride-- of the stone of the heart, More dreadful now than the point of thy dart, Of the days that are gone, and all misspent, Of the talent misused, beneficence lent, Of the cup of loose pleasure drained to its dregs, Of the virgin that weeps, and the orphan that begs.
Thou tell of the jibe and the jeer of the tongue, Of the blasphemy breathed on the ear of the young; Of wrongs unredressed, and of duties neglected, Of faith, grace, and mercy, unsought or rejected-- Of the Decalogue broken-- the preacher unheard, Of prayer forborne, and repentance deferred.
Rock, rock ye mountains, and cover me deep! Be true, thou dream of eternal sleep, Oh, spare me but yet for one short hour, That I may implore Redeeming power! Go, go to thy icy cavern of gloom, And wait for the good that are ripe for the tomb.
Now calm is each sense, and clear withal, I hear the last sands as they slackening fall, I see without hope, in their long array The good and the ill that were done in the clay;' T is" the book of life"-- I bear it with me, But whither I bear it, I may not see.
Thou merciless tyrant, do thy deed-- No bowels hast thou for the wretch in his need, Then couch on thy fleshless hip thy dart-- Already I feel it-- it stills my heart; Oh when shall I wake on the eternal sea? Oh! will there-- oh, can there, be mercy for me?For A Tablet For Her Departed Mother. Written At The Desire Of My Wife.

Past the brief hour allotted here to dwell, Rest, gentle shade, within thy hallowed cell-- Thy drop of joy, thy cup of grief and pain, Thy anxious fears, thy ardent hopes-- how vain! If blest the hour that gave thy being birth, A bliss more dear to thee-- this holy earth, Where sweet repose succeeds each trial past, And lingering pain has found relief at last. Yet ah! forgive, if human weakness crave T' invade, once more, the stillness of the grave; Forgive the grief thy dying lips forbade, The debt to worth by filial fondness paid; The praise that living did to please thee fail, The prayer that now no longer can avail. In youth, when beauty adulation drew, Nor pride nor vanity thy bosom knew; Deaf to the crowd that ever deemed thee fair, Thyself to conquer was thy only care. So pure thy life, even envy's tongue was bound, And slander passing by, forbore to wound; Can I to mind, those anxious years recall, When to thy offspring's good thou yielded all: 
Thy virtuous choice, the rugged path of pain, When splendour sought and pleasure lured in vain? Can I thy life of self-denial view, Unmoved, ungrateful, at this last adieu? No, best of mothers!-- best of women, no-- While yet my lot to linger here below, To this sad shrine shall memory still return, And bathe with grateful tears thy sacred urn. Still shall thy virtues be my humble aim-- Thy pious precepts every thought reclaim-- Thy steadfast faith, in life, in death serene, My heart inspire to be what thou hast been-- Let thy example prompt each secret sigh, Like thee to live, and oh! like thee to die, Till all this scene of vain illusion over, In happier realms we meet to part no more.
Stanzas To Eliza. 
Dear maid, as back over passion's wave, These eyes survey the sun-gilt shore-- Where once was thine, the tranquil hour Not yet love's willing slave, Ah still must this true bosom own A silent sad regret, That we who love's delights have known, Should ever have met.
For I have seen the bloom of youth, And calm content invest thy cheek, And I have seen thy bosom meek A prey to love and truth: That bosom, that no care had known, Nor cankering sorrow yet; That bloom, not on doubt's billows thrown, Ere first we met.
Yet though this heart in moments drear Despairs, sweet maid, to see thee blessed; Not always is it reft of rest, Nor yet a prey to fear: Still do I view the prospect gay, In fancy's mirror set, Still hear thee bless that well-known day, When first we met.
And why, since love, my constant fair, Has never been found unmixed below, Since thorns by sweetest roses grow, Ah, why should we despair? Is there no hope, on Him whose power Each shifting scene has set? Trust me, He yet will bless that hour When first we met. The Thorn.
 To Eliza.
When my soul gaily wakes from the slumbers of night, And my spirits refreshed seek the dews of the morn, Say unmixed do I feel the pure sense of delight? Ah no, in my bosom there still lives a thorn!
At noon when elated the woodlands I seek, And madly pursue with the high-sounding horn; Does health plant her rose on felicity's cheek? Ah no, on that cheek there still rankles a thorn.
At night when carousing, I fain would forget That ever a sad sigh in my bosom was born; Can wine drown the prison of silent regret? Ah no, in my bosom there still lives a thorn!
The thorn that the first gleam of morning discloses, That at night checks the ardour of friendship and glee; The thorn that at noon, intertwines with the roses Of health-- dear Eliza, is absence from thee. 1803.The Rose Bud. 
All weary of the trifling town, I wandered to the green-wood shade; The passing shower a sweet perfume Had scattered down the dusky glade.
The sky was clear, a vagrant breeze Skimmed lightly over the solemn deep, No eye was there, and reverend trees Hung mantling from the frowning steep.
' T was all sublime, and sweet romance Once more her magic wand displayed; I blessed the spot, and blessed the chance, That brought me to the green-wood shade.
A rock there was, of wondrous height, And no rude wind could reach below; Sweet banks hang sloping to the sight, And crystal waters down them flow.
Beneath this rock a rose-tree grew, So sweetly sheltered, you would say Nor shower, nor gale, nor lightning blue, Shall ever harm this rose so gay.
One tender bud soon caught my eye, Though half concealed its infant head;' T was vermilled over with sweetest dye That nature's pencil ever spread.
Along its graceful stalk there grew, Sweet leaves and moss of loveliest green; And freshest drops of morning dew, Hung sparkling every leaf between.
Transported with unthinking hand I clasped the unresisting flower; I'll bear thee to my native land, The boast and pride of all my bower.
Stay! stay thy hand, a whisper sighed, As to my heart the flower I pressed, Thy native land-- ah! where? it cried, Ah, where, the bower by thee possessed?
I started as I heard the voice--' T was prudence, cold mistrusting maid!-- This is the land of beauty's choice, Her bower is in the green-wood shade.
Then from my grasp the floweret sped, And sought again its native bough; But ah! how sunk its altered head-- Where are its glittering dew-drops now?
Oh! I will to the trifling town, And ponder over what Prudence said; And should some bower ever be my own, I'll seek again the green-wood shade.
And blessed in that returning hour, I'll lightly hold all else beside, Take to my heart that fragrant flower, Henceforth, to be" its boast and pride." 1804.Llangollen Letter. To Eliza. 
Eliza! though two hundred miles, Or nearly so, are now between us; Can fate, sweet maid-- can pleasure's wiles From love's delights one moment wean us.
No, no, the little God's inclined That all who wear his silken fetters Shall some relief from absence find In thoughts serene, or breathing letters.
And though no more thy yielded hand I grasp, my ardent bliss confessing; Or blessed beneath thy blue eyes bland, Of heaven implore no other blessing.
Though I must miss the devious walk, The lingering path, and twilight meeting; And list no more thy witching talk, That warned not how the day was fleeting.
Yet still, sweet maid, complain not I Of cruel stars, or fortune's scorning; For love too has its noontide sky, Its fragrant eve and dewy morning.
And I will say, when evening sad Shall lead to Dee's romantic bowers;" This, this can please, though I have had By other streams intenser hours."--
Sweet too to think as day decays Even now among the woods of Warrow;" Perhaps my loved Eliza strays, And feels for me a gentle sorrow."
Oh! memory then, once more display The harmless joys we there have tasted; Oh give again, sweet Mosellay! The blissful hours we there have wasted.
And as the tender moments flow, And memory gives back all her treasures; Give thou, oh Hope! thy warmer glow, And I will dream of promised pleasures.
And I will say-- these, these can please, The absent heart that never could doubt thee,-- But ah!'t is hope that bids them please, For life were but a void without thee. 1803.
