

Rambles By Rivers The Duddon.

There are few objects in nature more beautiful or more refreshing to eye and ear than a mountain stream. To a healthy mind it almost seems to impart something of its own lively flow, and bold and buoyant energy. Itself a happy emblem of the purity and vigour of poetic genius, it has ever been an especial favourite with all poets: our own noble band, from Spenser to Wordsworth, have celebrated it in snatches of description, or brief allusions, or fuller and more prolonged notes--
" Murmuring near the running brooks A music sweeter than their own".
Southey, in speaking of one of them, says," I could sit for hours to watch the motions of a brook". And he must be dull indeed who could wander without emotion along one that has been sung of by a great poet; or not have the feeling its natural beauty may arouse deepened by association with the genius it has inspired'.
In the autumn of 1842 we spent some time near the Duddon, the stream which forms the subject of Wordsworth's fine poem of that title; and it has occurred to us that we may be able to impart a little information to the admirer of his poetry, perhaps even to lead some of our readers who may be about to travel in the lake district to vary the usual route by devoting two or three days to exploring a stream so beautifully described by our great philosophic poet. The Duddon rises on Wrynose Fell, and divides the counties of Cumberland and Lancashire for about twenty - five miles, from its source till it enters the Irish Sea near the Isle of Walney. It is navigable only near its termination, and then but at high tide and by small craft; indeed throughout its course it is scarcely at all serviceable to man, hardly a mill being worked by it. Nor does it, like many other of the mountain-streams, anywhere expand into a lake or even a tarn; yet, even in this region of rivers, it is perhaps unequalled. It runs through a remarkably wild and picturesque country, and presents aspects singularly varied considering the shortness of its course. Wordsworth, in his' Scenery of the Lakes', says," It may be compared, such and so varied are its beauties, with any river of equal length in any country". However that may be, it is surpassed by none in the northern counties. Green, indeed, and he is no mean judge, places the Croglin and Eden first, while Southey puts in a word for his Keswick Greta, and everyone remembers Scott's description of its Yorkshire namesake: it is, however, to none of these we are disposed to think Duddon must yield; but we are not so certain as to the Wharfe. Be that as it may, our stream is very beautiful, and it is surprising that so few visit it. Hardly one visitor of the thousands who annually resort to the lakes does more than cross it. The country on either side of it is thinly peopled, and the guides at Keswick and Ambleside will talk loudly of the badness of the accommodation, the rudeness of the inhabitants, and the roughness of the way. It can indeed only be explored on foot, and it must be confessed that there is neither an hotel nor a gentleman's house throughout: but though the way be somewhat rough and the people unpolished, the traveller who is willing to be pleased will find accommodation, civility, and plenty; and in these days it should be anything but an objection to a genuine lover of rural sights and sounds that the place and the people are so little changed by the march of modern refinement. We are quite sure, if any of our readers will try the course we point out, they will thank us for suggesting it.
We purpose to follow our stream from its source to its termination in the sea, taking Wordsworth's poem as our guide. The source of the Duddon is on the top, or nearly the top, of Wrynose Fell. The best way of approach to it is from Langdale: you ascend Wrynose at Fell Foot, by the old Whitehaven road, which is carried over nearly the highest part of Wrynose. When only pack-horses were used for the conveyance of goods in these parts, this was the main road from Kendal to Whitehaven, a fact the stranger who sees it finds some difficulty in crediting, so rough and acclivitous is it. When the top of Wrynose is gained, a small circle of stones, three of them somewhat larger than the others will be seen on the right of the road; these are the' Three Shire Stones,' marking the junction of the counties of Westmoreland, Cumberland, and Lancashire. They are one of the local wonders, and will be readily pointed out to the visitor. Passing these, the traveller must almost directly turn out of the road, leaving it on his left, and he will soon come upon the source of the Duddon. The water oozes up through a bed of moss, and unless care be taken, the real source may be overlooked and a wrong spot selected, there being several other moss beds a little lower down the Fell. Wordsworth says of it( Sonnet Iii.):-- 
" How shall I paint thee?. . . . . . Nature hath lent To thy beginning nought that doth present Peculiar ground for hope to build upon."
It is, however, no ordinary spot. On such a morning as that on which we visited it-- cold, grey, and misty-- the huge masses of crag which protrude from the ground, bare of everything but the grey lichen and a few straggling tufts of grass on their highest points; the dull russet clothing of the thin soil; the many mingled and brilliant colours of the wet mosses; the perfect quiet of the air, broken only for a moment by the motion of a sheep or two that have straggled here, hardly it should seem for pasture,-- produce together so deep an impression of desolate solitude, as not to be soon forgotten. From this spot a slender thread of water finds its way down a narrow channel; it is, however, soon joined by one and another little streamlet, and begins very quickly to toss along its stony bed in that seemingly joyous mood so characteristic of mountain-streams. Long before it reaches the bottom of the Fell it has acquired a tolerable volume of water, and formed two or three pretty little water-breaks. Its course down the Fell is very tortuous, but if you have some time to spare, by all means follow its" loosely scattered curves," nor forget sometimes to look back. Wordsworth has devoted a sonnet to these retrospective glances; and it is pleasing to observe how a simple and hitherto unnoticed object will start into beauty at the touch of a true poet, as in nature we often see when a sudden gleam of sunshine illumines some obscure feature of the landscape.
 Beck is the name for a mountain-stream throughout the north of England.
When it reaches the Fell Foot, the broad rocky channel tells that though ordinarily but a trifling stream, it must sometimes present a grand appearance. The mountains here form a sort of coomb, and in stormy wintry weather, or on the melting of the snow upon them, large quantities of water pour down on every side, bringing with them great masses of stone, which, as they are driven against the projecting crags on the mountain-sides, or against each other as they roll along the bed of the stream, make, we were told, a strange turmoil, and may often be heard at a considerable distance. Here our stream is joined by a small one that rises by Scawfell; and now it takes the name of Cockley Beck. The traveller will here pause to admire the magnificent array of mountains on either hand; especially on the west, where they appear in their full majesty, the rugged outline of the Pikes of Scawfell forming a background of a grander kind than any other, perhaps, in the whole district. So grand is their appearance in this place, that the lover of nature will be tempted to leave our stream for awhile, and wander up the dale towards them; and he will do well. At almost every step some new feature of greatness will present itself, and as tie vale winds they will be seen in many various and striking combinations. They who would ascend Scawfell may do so without much difficulty from this vale. But we must return to our stream. Where it takes the name of Cockley Beck it is crossed by a bridge( called by the dalesmen Cocklety Brig, as the stream is called Cocklety Beck), which leads to a small farm-house, the" Cottage rude and grey" of which Wordsworth speaks in his 5th Sonnet, but the" ruddy children" will be looked for in vain-- three and twenty years have not passed away without doing their work with them. As the way has been rather long and toilsome, the tourist will do well to enter the cottage; he may be sure of a welcome and some plain refreshment, and may gain, what is always worth acquiring, a little insight into the manners of the people through whose neighbourhood he is journeying. It is, indeed, worth a stranger's while to take some such opportunity to observe the natives of Donnerdale, as the district through which the Duddon flows is called. Our dalesmen are reserved, and must be watched to have their real character caught: but the observer will not go unrewarded. They are a fine intelligent race of men, and worth observing: hardly so intelligent, perhaps, as the genuine mountaineer, and not near so hearty; their reserve is sometimes too near akin to sullenness, and they have not the same sly, quiet humour. The mountain shepherd, too, is not only keener, but more thoughtful; indeed, if you can lead him to throw off somewhat of his reserve, you will find often a depth and extent of thought little anticipated; often, too, a genuine appreciation of the grand and beautiful in nature, with something of a poetic feeling, mingled, it must be confessed, with not a little superstition-- but that, some say, is a chief element in the poetic character. The dalesman has not so much elevation of character, and it will require but little observation, to see that a rigid economy verging on parsimony, is practised by him; but it is chiefly in the matter of money-- a rare article, and carefully husbanded. He abounds in social virtues, and we were told many little circumstances that showed his genuine sympathy with trouble, and his disregard of self in his attempts to relieve it. He is neighbourly to a degree only understood in a thinly peopled district. His hospitality-- simple, but hearty-- we often tested, and always found ready; and though in other matters even more parsimonious than the men, in this the women are by far the most liberal. To be a stranger is always claim enough, and readily acknowledged. They seldom go far from their homes, and seem to have a feeling almost of pity for those who are distant from theirs. Here, at Cockley Brig farm-house, for instance, we were served with milk and oaten cake, and while partaking of it we tried to gossip a little with the old dame; but she was, as the dalesmen say, very short till her own curiosity began to be excited as to our home, and even then it was amusing to see how cautiously she tried to worm out the desired information. " Yeer no much used to these crags?" she began; but determined to be for awhile as brief as she had been, we replied," Not much." " Whar do' e gang fra?"" Wide of this," said we. " Ye coom fra Cockermouth, perhaps?" " No, we are from the South." " Fra Liverpool?"" No, from London." " Nay," said she in a tone of mingled surprise and sympathy," but t' ou art a lang way fra hame!" Then setting before us all the good things the house could afford, she pressed us again and again to eat, repeating every moment," Dinna ta stint ta' sel." And we had some difficulty in convincing her that, as we had fixed our quarters at Seathwaite, we were in no great danger of starvation. The phraseology of the dalesmen is very singular; they apply words almost as strangely as Americans are said to do. We heard two shepherds, as they were sitting by the public-house fire at Seathwaite, talk about some sheep they had seen at market that day:--"' T was a terrible gurt( great) sheep that," said one. " Ay," replied his companion,"' t was a maist serious grand sheep indeed." And this is by no means an extreme specimen.
The old Whitehaven road crosses the river at Cockley Brig, and here leaves it, passing over the side of the mountain called Hardknot into Eskdale. Somewhat more than half - way down the hill, a little on the right of the road, are the remains of a Roman fortress," Hardknot Castle," as it is called, which is well worth a visit: there is a fine and very extensive view from it; Scawfell in particular is seen to great advantage. From Cockley Brig the scenery, for a mile or so, is rather tame along the beck, but if there is little in the vicinity, there is much in the stream itself to delight us. Now it has assumed something of the port and strength of a river: the water too, which, like Cotton's favourite Dove, was" black at its source, because it springs from the mosses" has, like it, become" so clarified by the addition of several clear springs, bigger than itself, which gush out of the limestone rocks, that in a few miles you will find it one of the purest crystalline springs you have seen." Wordsworth notices this:" The water," he says," is perfectly pellucid, through which in many places is seen to a great depth its bed of rock or blue gravel, which gives to the water itself an exquisitely cerulean colour:" this is very observable hereabouts. And here too are The Stepping Stones: every reader of Wordsworth will remember them, and most will" have a vision of his own" about them. He need not fear that the reality will fall short of his conception. We have seen many, but none sure so graceful:-- 
" They might seem a zone Chosen for ornament-- stone matched with stone In studied symmetry, with interspace For the clear waters to pursue their race Without restraint 
 -- Sonnet Ix.
And they are as harmonious in colour as symmetrical in form. Of a delicate white with the slightest admixture of blue, they present, as they are reflected in the crystal stream, an image the eye dwells on with a continuous pleasure. They are a something to remember. Hitherto our stream has wound quietly among the masses of crag that have, at various times, been brought down by it from its parent fells; but soon after we have passed the stepping-stones, it boldly forces its way through the solid rock, which it has wrought into many strange fantastic forms.
Objects immense portrayed in miniature, Wild shapes for many a strange comparison! Niagaras, Alpine passes, and anon Abodes of Naiads, calm abysses, pure Bright liquid mansions.''-- Sonnet Xii.
The traveller should not leave the bed of the river here while he can make his way along it; every step brings out some new or quaint device of our fairy-like guide. Not far from the place above referred to is a chasm where the sublime and the fanciful seem striving for the mastery; a strange spot as ever was pitched upon: well might Wordsworth call it the" Faery Chasm." Its steep rocky sides are of a bright blue-grey tint, deepening under the water almost into azure, and riven into such strange shapes as that'' tricksy spirit" Ariel might have delighted to fashion. The scenery too about this spot is very fine: on one hand are Hardknot and its associate mountains; on the other various crags, backed by the majestic mass of Coniston Old Man. Directly in front are Wallabarrow crag and the Fen, with several mountains of moderate elevation and graceful form in the distance.
Here we must leave our stream awhile. We have now reached Seathwaite, where for the present we stay. Wordsworth, indeed, makes his poem a summer day's journey, but he admits this to be a poetic licence. It is quite impossible to explore the scenery of the Duddon in that time. The hasty visitor may indeed see it all, at least as well as he usually sees anything, in two days; but the man who has learned to look on nature with a truer feeling will not, if he have leisure, think as many weeks too much to devote to this lovely region. Seathwaite is a good resting-place: it is in the midst of the finest portion of the scenery, and has connected with it some interesting associations, upon which we shall now touch. It contains too a little inn, in which the accommodation is rude, but the parties who keep it are civil and desirous to oblige, and the genuine traveller will be content with these. He need not, however, fare amiss: fell-mutton, and ham, and mutton-ham he may always obtain; and trout too, if he will, as Mrs. Glasse directs," catch them first"-- for Duddon is what" honest Izaak'' calls" a trouty stream." With these, and the usual addenda procurable in a north-country farm, a moderate man may have, as Cowley says," not so many choice dishes at every meal; but at several meals all of them, which makes them both the more healthy and the more pleasant.''
Seathwaite is remarkable as the place in which" Wonderful Robert Walker" dwelt so many years. Wordsworth has given a very full and interesting account of him in his notes to" The Duddon," to which, or to the second volume of' The Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficulties,' the reader may refer. It may here suffice to say that he was born in 1709, at Under Crag in Seathwaite, and was the youngest of twelve children. Being sickly in youth, he was" bred up a scholar," and after acting for some time as a schoolmaster, he was ordained, and about 1735 became curate of Seathwaite, in which he remained till his death, sixty - six years afterwards. The value of his curacy when he entered upon it was 5 l. per annum, with a cottage; about the same time he married, and his wife brought him, as he says," to the value of 40 l. for her fortune." He had a family of twelve children, of whom however only eight lived; these he educated respectably-- one at least became a clergyman-- was even munificent in his hospitality as a parish priest, and generous to the needy, and yet, although the income of his curacy never exceeded 50 1. per annum," at his decease he left behind him no less a sum than 2000 l.; and such a sense of his various excellences was prevalent in the country, that the epithet of Wonderful is to this day attached to his name." As Wordsworth says, there is in this something so extraordinary as to require further explanatory details, but for these we refer to the works before named, merely remarking that he spun the wool needed for the family clothing himself, which was made up into the various garments by the female portion of the family; while he spun, he taught the children of his parishioners: then he assisted his neighbours in hay-making, sheep-shearing,& c., besides serving as scrivener, and in various ways rendering them assistance; had an acre or two of land, which he tilled himself, and also possessed and attended to a few sheep and a couple of cows. Many of these employments, and others in which his biographer relates him to have been engaged, are sufficiently unclerical, but we were told, by some of the older inhabitants, of one still more so, and which Wordsworth either did not hear of or thought too unpoetical to repeat. At that time there was no public-house in the place, and Walker was accustomed, they said, to supply any who required such refreshment with ale of his own brewing, charging for it a certain price, and two - pence per quart extra if drunk in his house; the usual place for drinking it being the adjacent field. The circumstance would hardly be worth recording, did it not serve to illustrate the singular simplicity of manners that prevailed. Such a thing can hardly be conceived of elsewhere at that period as a clergyman making his house in some sort a tavern. Southey indeed tells that up to the middle of the reign of George Ii., such cures were held in these northern counties by unordained persons, who commonly added to their scanty income by the pursuit of some manual occupation. The person, for instance, who held the curacy in the Vale of Newlands, near Keswick, at that period, exercised the various trades of tailor, clogger, and butter-print maker. We ought not to omit either, that, amid all his various laborious occupations, Walker is said to have preserved his affections unimpaired, to have carefully and successfully cultivated his intellect, and to have been tenderly alive to the duties of his pastoral office: truly, as Wordsworth remarks," in this extraordinary man things in their nature adverse were reconciled."
 ' Colloquies', i., 368.
Very many of the simple homely customs ascribed to Walker are yet far from obsolete in the neighbourhood. In the farm-houses the master of the house may still be seen at the head of a long table, with his farm servants sitting down to their meals as part of the family. Rush candles are yet employed in common,'' white or tallow candles being reserved," as with Walker," for important occasions." And we imagine tea is even now very little used, except by the more wealthy farmers, at whose houses indeed we have seen it. Neither Walker nor his wife ever partook of it, though they kept it in the house for visitors or such of their own family as had been accustomed to this refreshment elsewhere. Porridge was their substitute, and it is still employed at the meals answering to breakfast and tea. At the public-house at Seathwaite, the landlord of which is also a farmer, this is the case, and we were somewhat amused, after we had finished our tea, to see the tea-pot very quietly taken to the landlord, and tea made for him alone, from the tea-leaves which had just served us. When the master of the house happened at such times to be from home, his mother( he had no wife), an old but vigorous dame, appropriated the luxury to her own use.
There are few places in our country perhaps that have changed so little as has Seathwaite since Walker's time; there have been no new buildings, nor has anything altered the external look of the place, unless it be the addition of the public-house, and that is an old farm-house. Walker's own house has been enlarged since his death, but only so much as to render it somewhat more convenient to his successor. Nor have the inhabitants greatly changed; they are still the same frugal, industrious, quiet, church-going race: there is indeed a slight change in the last item. Walker congratulates himself that there is" not one dissenter of any denomination in the parish," and now there are several Methodists, and two or three Baptists, who have occasional meetings at private houses, for there is still no dissenting meeting-house in Seathwaite; but the chief part of the inhabitants are still steady churchmen.
The chapel in which Walker so long officiated is a simple structure, a low oblong building with a plain porch, and one bell, hung visibly in a most primitive-looking belfry, with the bell-rope hanging down on the outside. It differs little in its appearance from many other chapels scattered throughout the more retired parts of the locality; it is not, however, so small as many of them, that at Wasdale Head for instance, which has seven pews, one being for each of the six families in the chapelry, and the remaining one for strangers. Seathwaite churchyard contains a fine old yew, and near it a sun-dial, by which is Walker's grave-stone, a plain blue slab shown in the engraving: upon it is the following inscription:-- 
" In memory of the Reverend Robert Walker, who died the 25th day of June, 1802, in the 93rd year of his age, and 67th of his curacy at Seathwaite.
" Also of Anne, his wife, who died the 28th of January, 1802, in the 93rd year of her age."
The only noticeable thing in the interior of the chapel is Walker's pew, which is still lined with cloth woven by his own hand-- it is the only pew in the chapel so distinguished. There is about Seathwaite chapel an air of antique rudeness, that at once carries the mind back to a by-gone age; it speaks as strongly of other times as the noblest minster-- but how differently! We advise the visitor, if he can, to spend a Sunday there. Few sights would be more interesting to one not thoroughly sophisticated than the old kirk-yard on a Sabbath morning. Then the old kirk-- the noble yew, older still than the kirk, with the sun-dial by it-- the few grave-stones scattered about, and the everlasting hills-- which form so noble a background to the whole-- all seem to wear an air of deeper repose and more silent grandeur than ever. But presently the bell tolls, and its first sounds have hardly passed away when one and another of the dalesmen come quietly in, giving and receiving a simple greeting, and then separating into little groups, or loitering singly about the graves, apparently recalling, many of them at least, the memory of those who sleep below, while others collect under the shade of the old yew; the fairer portion of the congregation meantime resting on the benches within the porch, but none, at least in fine weather, enter the chapel. Soon, however, as the bell's last stroke has sounded, the clergyman, a happy-looking old man-- apparently no unworthy successor of Walker-- may be seen making his way towards the kirk, exchanging with all a smile, a word, or a bow of genuine old-fashioned courtesy( and the stranger will be sure to receive one more marked than others), and after a little longer talk with his fair parishioners in the porch, he enters the chapel, followed by his charge. We saw them thus gathering, one calm sunny sabbath-morn, from the dales and the fells, and it recurs to our memory as the most beautiful sight of the kind we ever beheld.
" Upon the Seathwaite Brook," says Wordsworth," at a small distance from the parsonage, has been erected a mill for spinning yarn; it is a mean and disagreeable object, though not unimportant to the spectator, as calling to mind the momentous changes wrought by such inventions in the frame of society." We went to look at the mill, and found it with its roof partly fallen in, its wheel broken; and on trying the door, its hinges, rusted from long disuse, gave way. The machinery, too, though in appearance undisturbed since it was last used, was decayed, the web crumbling at the slightest touch. Our poet, were he to visit it now, might find new matter for reflection on the changes wrought by the progress of invention, which has rendered this as obsolete as it made unaided hand-labour.
Before leaving Seathwaite, the tourist should not fail to visit the station Wordsworth has pointed out in his' Notes' for the sake of the view he so beautifully describes. The reader who may not have his work at hand, will thank us for quoting the whole passage, hardly equalled, we think, by any descriptive piece in modem prose. He is speaking of the way of approach to the Duddon:--" After all, the traveller would be most gratified who should approach this beautiful stream neither at its source, as is done in the sonnets, nor from its termination, but from Coniston, over Walna Scar; first descending into a little circular valley, a collateral compartment of the long winding vale through which flows the Duddon. This recess, towards the close of September, when the after-grass of the meadows is still of a fresh green, with the leaves of many of the trees faded, but perhaps none fallen, is truly enchanting. At a point elevated enough to show the various objects in the valley, and not so high as to diminish their importance, the stranger will instinctively halt. On the foreground, a little below the most favourable station, a rude footbridge is thrown over the bed of the noisy brook foaming by the wayside. Russet and craggy hills, of bold and varied outline, surround the level valley, which is besprinkled with grey rocks plumed with birch-trees. A few homesteads are interspersed, in some places peeping out from among the rocks like hermitages, whose site has been chosen for the benefit of sunshine, as well as shelter; in other instances, the dwelling-house, barn, and byre compose together a cruciform structure, which, with its embowering trees, and the ivy clothing part of the walls and roof like a fleece, call to mind the remains of an ancient abbey. Time, in most cases, and nature everywhere, have given a sanctity to the humble works of man that are scattered over this peaceful retirement. Hence a harmony of tone and colour, a consummation and perfection of beauty, which would have been marred had aim or purpose interfered with the course of convenience, utility, or necessity. This unvitiated region stands in no need of the veil of twilight to soften or disguise its features. As it glistens in the morning sunshine, it would fill the spectator's heart with gladsomeness. Looking from our chosen station, he would feel an impatience to rove among its pathways, to be greeted by the milk-maid, to wander from house to house, exchanging' good-morrows' as he passed the open doors; but at evening, when the sun is set, and a pearly light gleams from the western quarter of the sky, with an answering light from the smooth surface of the meadows; when the trees are dusky, but each kind still distinguishable; when the cool air has condensed the blue smoke rising from the chimneys; when the dark mossy stones seem to sleep in the bed of the foaming brook; then he would be unwilling to move forward, not less from a reluctance to relinquish what he beholds, than from an apprehension of disturbing by his approach, the quietness beneath him."
This' Station' will be found without difficulty by those who have descended from the source of the Duddon. You cross the vale from Seathwaite by Seathwaite brook, having Under Crag on your left, and, ascending Walna Scar, the proper position will be readily found by the preceding description which is as accurate as it is beautiful. In returning we may follow the streamlet here spoken of, which dashes in a sparkling current past the churchyard of Seathwaite, till it joins the river in the midst of the wild and beautiful scenery which gave occasion to the Sonnets from the fourteenth to the twentieth, inclusive. This is unquestionably the grandest part of the scenery of the Duddon. The river here makes its way between steep and lofty crags of bold and imposing aspect; and as the course of the stream is very tortuous, strange and striking combinations of forms, with wild and varied effects of light and shade, occur at every step. The rock is a friable kind, and shattered in every direction; large masses have fallen from the heights on either hand, and others impend in a threatening manner. " The chaotic aspect of the scene is well marked by the expression of a stranger, who strolled out while dinner was preparing, and at his return being asked what way he had been wandering, replied,' As far as it is finished.'"( Wordsworth.)
The best way to explore the scenery here, if the traveller does not mind a little rough climbing, is to get into the bed of the river by the brook, and proceed along it, under Walla Barrow crag, as far as he can towards the source. He must make his way over huge fragments of rock that in some places appear to entirely block up the bed of the river, the water forcing itself under and between them in such a manner as to be unseen at a little distance; and in others are so disposed as to produce the singular variety of sparkling waterbreaks that occur here in little more than half a mile. It is rather a rough way, and the visitor may perchance get wet feet; but if he confine himself to what he can see from the crags above, he will miss his only chance of seeing some scenery seldom to be matched for a grandeur nearly allied to sublimity. A great beauty in these mountain-streams is, that a few yards will present you with an almost entire change of landscape; here it is remarkably the case: one moment bare rude rock towers up against the deep blue sky, the water dashes along in a shallow brawling stream, while the broken outline of a mountain-pile bounds the distance; the next we are shut in by light and graceful trees, the varying hues of the birch, ash, and hazel blending in exquisite harmony, and imaging themselves in a still pool, over whose surface a crowd of merry insects ceaselessly gambol, their gentle hum but adding to the deep feeling of quietude. Here, in this little space of some half a mile perhaps, might the painter find almost a month's employment in making studies of rock and foliage mingling their various tints with the underwood and ever-changing water. But we have lingered too long. Retracing our steps, we again proceed towards our journey's end. Though our river, after we have passed the Seathwaite brook, flows along a more level country, and is unmarked by any of the grander or more striking features on which we have hitherto dwelt, the way is very beautiful.
" Through delicious meads The murmuring stream its winding water leads;"
light foliage with flowers of every hue grace its banks; the rugged features of the crags have become softened by distance; the fields are alive with cattle; and grey cottages chequer every spot of rising ground;-- we have exchanged our Salvator Like scenery for such as our own Hofland most delighted in.
The next place of any consequence, after leaving Seathwaite, is Ulpha( pronounced Oopha by the dalesmen). Before reaching it we come upon a singular assemblage of rocks that might have suggested the idea of Wordsworth's twelfth sonnet, though we believe it is intended to describe those by Seathwaite, of which we have already spoken. These are very singular: they project but little above the surface of the water, but are riven into the most fanciful forms, over and through and between which the river makes its way in a number of sparkling waterbreaks of varied sizes and height. We point the visitor's attention to this spot, not only for its singularity, but that he may also notice the rock itself. A fine red porphyritic dyke here crosses the channel of the river, contrasting finely with the light limestone with which it is in conjunction; it is, of course, owing to the greater hardness of this dyke that it projects so much above the level of the neighbouring rock, and that the irregular appearance here spoken of is produced. The whole course of the river, from Seathwaite to Ulpha, is exceedingly picturesque; the views are more open and extended than heretofore, and the distant mountains are of pleasing, often graceful forms, both alone and in combination: Broughton Tower, too, as seen in many places, is a pleasing addition to the landscape. As we approach Ulpha, its chapel forms an interesting landmark. Wordsworth says:--
 We may mention that, though we have not referred to the geological features of our route, there is much in it to interest the geologist; nor need the botanist fear that he will lack employment.
" The kirk of Ulpha to the pilgrim's eye Is welcome as a star that doth present Its shining forehead through the peaceful rent Of a black cloud diffused through half the sky
It is situated on a high bank, and commands a fine view. We might well wander awhile in the churchyard," soothed by the unseen river's gentle roar, from pastoral graves extracting thoughts divine." Walker was offered the curacy of Ulpha, but declined holding it along with his own, lest it should be attributed to covetousness in him, his own living at that time( 1755) being worth 15 l per annum! At Ulpha there is a public-house( known as Ulpha Kirk House), in which the traveller will meet with better accommodation than at Seathwaite, but the scenery is not so fine, nor does it divide the distance so well.
From Ulpha the river widens, but becomes tamer and less romantic; it will, indeed, hardly repay the trouble of following its windings, especially as the ground on each side is enclosed. It must, however, be joined again by Broughton or sooner, for-- 
" now expands Majestic Duddon over smooth flat sands Gliding in silence with unfettered sweep! Beneath an ampler sky a region wide Is opened round him: hamlets, towers, and towns, And blue-topped hills, behold him from afar." 
 Sonnet Xxxii.
Our great guide here likens him to--
" Sovereign Thames, Spreading his bosom under Kentish downs,"
but, it must be confessed, it requires all fancy's help to sustain the resemblance. Still it is a noble sight, when the full tide has laid the whole stretch of sand, a mile and a half across, under water, to gaze from some elevated spot over it as it mingles its waters with the mighty ocean, the setting sun meantime blending all into a glow of golden splendour, while thousands of waterfowl, darting in every direction with the swiftness almost of the lightning, and baffling the keenest eye to follow their rapid evolutions, impart an air of liveliness to a scene that might else perhaps be too sombre from its uniformity.

