

Black's Shilling Guide To The English Lakes. Illustrated With Maps, Charts, And Views. Edinburgh: Adam And Charles Black, North Bridge. Mdcccliii.

The Lake District. 
For the accommodation of strangers about to make the Tour of the Lake District, and who are in doubt, from the number of routes, which, and in what order to take them, we have drawn up an abstract of four Yours, which it is supposed commence and terminate at each of the four principal towns lying upon the edge of the district, viz, Kendal, Ulverston, Penrith, and Whitehaven. By consulting the map of the Lake District, and charts, Tourists will be able to vary the Tours according to their convenience; and by reference to the Contents, the reader will find the page of the volume, in which the objects mentioned in the abstract are described at length.
Abstract Of Tours. I. Kendal 
Kendal - Bowness - Windermere - Ambleside - Troutbeck Excursion - Coniston - ascend the Old Man - Circuit of Coniston Lake - Ambleside - Langdale Excursion - Excursion round Grasmere and Rydalmere - Wythburn - ascend Helvellyn - Thirlmere - Keswick - Circuit of Derwentwater - Vale of St John - ascend Skiddaw - Bassenthwaite Excursion - Borrowdale - Buttermere - Scale Hill - Excursion to Ennerdale Water - Egremont - Strands at the foot of Wast Water - ascend Scawfell Pike - Keswick by way of Sty Head - Penrith - Excursion to Hawes Water - Excursion to Ulleswater - Patterdale - Ambleside, by Hawkeshead and Esthwaite Water to Bowness - Kendal.
Ii. Ulverston. 
Ulverston - Coniston Lake - Waterhead Inn - ascend the Old Man - Ambleside - Circuit of Windermere - Troutbeck Excursion - Langdale Excursion, in which Langdale Pikes may be ascended - Excursion to Rydal, Grasmere, and Loughrigg Tarn - Grasmere - Wythburn - ascend Helvellyn - Thirlmere - Keswick - Circuit of Derwentwater - Excursion into the Vale of St John - ascend Skiddaw - Circuit of Bassenthwaite Lake - Excursion through Borrowdale to Buttermere - Crummock Water - Scale Hill - Ennerdale Water - Egremont - Strands - ascend Scawfell Pike - Wast Water - over Sty Head to Keswick - Penrith - Excursion to Hawes Water - Excursion to Ulleswater - Patterdale - Ambleside - Hawkshead - Esthwaite Water - Ulverston - Excursion by Broughton into Dennerdale and Seathwaite.
Iii. Penrith. 
Penrith - Excursion to Haweswater - Ulleswater - Patterdale - ascend Helvellyn, by Kirkstone, to Ambleside - Troutbeck Excursion - Circuit of Windermere - Langdale Excursion - ascend Langdale Pikes - Coniston - Circuit of Coniston Lake - ascend the Old Man - return to Ambleside - Excursion round Grasmere And Rydalmere - Wythburn - Thirlemere - Keswick - ascend Skiddaw - Circuit of Derwentwater - Excursion into the Vale of St. John - Circuit of Bassenthwaite Water - Borrowdale - Buttermere - Scale Hill - Excursion to Ennerdale Water - Egremont - Strands at the foot of Wast Water - ascend Scawfell Pike - Keswick by way of Sty Head - Penrith.
Iv. Whitehaven. 
Whitehaven - Excursion to Ennerdale Lake - Egremont - Wast Water - ascend Scawfell Pike - by Sty Head, and through Borrowdale, to Keswick - Circuit of Keswick Lake - ascend Skiddaw - Excursion to the Vale of St John - Circuit of Bassenthwaite Water - Penrith - Excursion to Hawes Water - Ulleswater - Patterdale - ascend Helvellyn - Ambleside by Kirkstone - Circuit of Winderemere - Troutbeck Excursion - Coniston - ascend the Old Man - Circuit of Coniston Lake - Hawkshead - Bowness - Ambleside - Langdale Excursion, in which Langdale Pikes may be ascended - Excursion round Grasmere and Rydalmere - Grasmere - Wythburn - Thirlemere - Keswick - Borrowdale - Buttermere - Scale Hill - Whitehaven.
The Lake District. 
The section of England, known by the name of the Lake District, occupies a portion of the three counties of Cumberland, Westmorland, and Lancaster, and extends over an area, the greatest length and breadth of which are not more than forty - five miles. The picturesque attractions of the district are probably unequalled in any other part of England; and although some of the Scottish lochs and mountains must be admitted to present some prospects of more imposing grandeur, it may safely be said, that no tract of country in Britain combines in richer affluence those varied features of sublimity and beauty which have conferred upon this spot so high a reputation.
For the lover of nature, no tour could be devised of a more pleasing character than that which these lakes afford. " We penetrate the Glaciers, and traverse the Rhone and the Rhine, whilst our domestic lakes of Ullswater, Keswick, and Windermere exhibit scenes in so sublime a style, with such beautiful colourings of rock, wood, and water, backed with so stupendous a disposition of mountains, that if they do not fairly take the lead of all the views of Europe, yet they are indisputably such as no English traveller should leave behind him."
 Cumberland.
Nor is it only to the admirer of external nature that this district presents attractions. It is no less interesting to the antiquarian, the geologist, and the botanist. The remains of three Abbeys,-- Furness,-- Calder, and Shap,-- of numerous castles,-- of one or two Roman stations,-- and of many Druidical erections,-- afford ample scope of the research of the antiquarian; whilst the rich variety of stratified and unstratified rocks, forming a complete series from the granitic to the carboniferous beds;-- and many rare plants with ample facilities for observing the effect produced upon vegetation by the varying temperature of the air at different altitudes, yield to the students of geology and of botany abundant matter for employment in their respective pursuits. A further interest is imparted to the locality from its being the spot with which many of our great modern poets have been more or less intimately connected, and from which many of their finest poems have emanated.
The district may be traversed by many routes, the selection of which will depend upon the tourist's convenience and taste, but especially upon the point from which he enters it. But as the Lancaster and Carlisle Railway is now, undoubtedly, the great avenue of approach, both from the north and south, and, by means of the Kendal Junction Line, brings Tourists directly to Kendal and the shores of Windermere, we conceive that we shall best consult his accommodation by commencing with the descriptions of these places.
Kendal. 
[. Hotels:-- King's Arms; Commercial; Crown.]
Kendal, otherwise Kirkby In-Kendal, the largest town in Westmorland, is situate in a pleasant valley on the banks of the River Kent, from which it derives its name. It contained in 1851, 11,829 inhabitants, and is a place of considerable manufacturing industry, having a large trade in woollen goods. The woollen manufacture was founded as early as the fourteenth century, by some Flemish weavers, who settled here at the invitation of Edward Iii. The town is intersected by four leading streets, two of which, lying north and south, form a spacious thoroughfare of a mile in length. The river is spanned by three neat stone bridges; it is of no great width, though subject to sudden floods by its proximity to the mountains. The houses, build of the limestone which abounds in the neighbourhood, possess an air of cleanliness and comfort,-- their white walls contrasting pleasingly with numerous poplars, which impart a cheerful rural aspect to the town.
The barony of Kendal was granted by William the Conqueror to Ivo de Traillebois, one of his followers, in which grant the inhabitants of the town, as villein( i.e. bond or serf) tenants, were also included; but they were afterwards emancipated, and their freedom confirmed by a charter from one of his descendants. The barony now belongs, in unequal portions, to the Earl of Lonsdale and the Hon. Mrs. Howard, both of whom have extensive possessions in Westmorland. By the Municipal Corporations Reform Act, the government of the borough is vested in a mayor, six aldermen, and eighteen common councillors, six of whom are elected by each of the three wards into whiich it is divided. By the Reform Act, which disfranchised Appleby, the county town, Kendal, has the privilege of returning one member to Parliament.
The Parish Church, a spacious Gothic edifice, dedicated to the Holy Trinity stands in that part of the borough called Kirkland. The tower is square, and possesses an altitude of 72 feet. Like most other ecclesiastical structures of an ancient date, it contains a number of curious monuments and epitaphs. There are two other churches in the town, both lately erected, and forming handsome edifices; that which stands at the foot of Stricklandgate is dedicated to St Thomas, the other near Stramongate Bridge to St George. In addition to the churches of the establishment, the Dissenters have upwards of a dozen places of worship. The Roman Catholics have recently erected a beautiful new Chapel, on the New Road near the Natural History Society's Museum. This Museum contains a collection of specimens illustrating local and general natural history and antiquities. The Whitehall Buildings, at the head of Lowther Street, form a handsome pile. They contain a news-room, ball-room, auction-room, billiard-room,& c. The Lancaster and Carlisle Railway passes within a short distance to the east of the town, and the Kendal and Windermere Railway forms a junction with the Lancaster and Carlisle at Oxenholme, two miles from Kendal. On the east of town is the termination of the Lancaster and Preston Canal, whicih affords great facilities for the conveyance of coal to and from Kendal.
The ruins of Kendal Castle, of which only four broken towers, and the outer wall, surrounded by a deep fosse, remain, crown the summit of a steep elevation on the east of the town. The remains of this fortress are well worthy of a visit, on account of the views of the town and valley which the hill commands. This was the ancient seat of the Barons of Kendal, and the birth-place of Catherine Parr, the last Queen of Henry Viii, a lady, who( as Pennant quaintly remarks,)" had the good fortune to descend to the grave with her head, in all probability, merely by outliving her tyrant." Opposite to the castle, on the west side of teh town, is Castle How-hill, or Castle Low-hill, a large circular mount of gravel and earth, round the base of which there is a deep fosse, strengthened with two bastions on the east. It is of great antiquity, and is supposed by some to have been one of those hills called Laws, where in ancient times justice was administered. In 1788, a handsome obelisk was erected in the commemoration of the Revolution of 1688.
About a mile to the south of the town, at a spot where the river almost bends upon itself, and hence called Water Crook, are the scarcely perceptible remains of the Roman Station, Concagium, formerly a place of some importance, judging from the number of urns, tiles, and other relics of antiquity discovered there. It is believed that a watch was stationed at this point for the security of the Roman posts at Ambleside and Overborough. In the walls of a farm-house in the vicinity are two altars, a large stone with a sepulchral inscription, and a mutilated statue.
" A straggling burgh, of ancient charter proud, And dignified by battlements and towers Of some stern castle, mouldering on the brow Of a green hill"--  
 Wordsworth.
One mile and a-half to the west, at the termination of a long ascent over an open moor, is the bold escarpment of limestone rock, called Underbarrow( or Scout) Scar. It is a remarkable object, and would repay the trouble of a visit for the splendid view of then distant lake mountains, and the interjacent country, which it commands. A hill, rising abruptly on the east of the town, termed Benson Knott, has an altitude of 1098 feet above the level of the sea. From the summit of this hill, an extensive prospect is also obtained.
Levens Hall, the seat of the Hon. Mrs Howard, five miles south of Kendal, is a venerable mansion, in the Elizabethan style, buried among lofty trees. The park, through which the River Kent winds betwixt bold and beautifully wooded banks, is separated by the turnpike road from the house. It is of considerable size, well-stocked with deer, and contains a noble avenue of ancient oaks. The gardens, however, form the greatest attraction, being laid out in the old French style, of which this is perhaps a unique example in the kingdom. They were planned by Mr Beaumont,( whose portrait, very properly, is preserved in the Hall,) gardener to King James Ii. Trim alleys, bowling-greens, and wildernesses fenced round by sight-proof thickets of beech, remind the beholder, by their antique appearance, of times" long, long ago." In one part, a great number of yews, hollies, laurels, and other evergreens, are cut into an infinite variety of grotesque shapes.
 ----" a spacious plot For pleasure made, a godly spot. With lawns, and beds of flowers, and shades Of trellis-work, in long arcades, And cirque and cresent framed by walls Of close-clipt foliage, green and tall, Converging walks." 
 White Doe of Rylstone.
The gardens, as may be imagined, harmonized well with the old Hall, the interior of which also deserves more than a passing glance. It contains some exquisite specimens of elaborate carved work-- 
" The chambers carved so curiously, Carved with figures strange and sweet, All made out of the carver's brain." 
 Christabel.
The work in the south drawing-room is exceedingly rich, as may be conceived from its having been estimated that, at the present rate of wages, its execution would cost L. 3000. The carved chimney-piece in the Library is a curious and interesting piece of workmanship. Three of Lely's best portraits hang on the walls of different chambers, as well as other portraits of personages of consequence in bygone times. The entrance hall is decorated with relics of ancient armour of various dates, and one of the rooms is adorned with some splendid pieces of tapestry, descriptive of a tale from one of the Italian poets.
Sizergh Hall, th seat of the ancient family of Strickland, situate three and a half miles south of Kendal, at the foot of a bleak hill facing the east, is also deserving of a visit. It is an antique fortified building, standing in an undulating park, delightfully sprinkled with wood. Only a small portion of the Old Tower remains, frequent additions and repairs having given an irregular but picturesque aspect to the whole pile. It contains a considerable collection of carved oak, tapestry, portraits, and armour.
The other seats in the neighbourhood are, Abbot Hall, Kirkland,( Mrs Wilson); The Vicarage, Kirkland( Rev. J. Barnes); Helm Lodge, two miles south( W. D. Crewdson, Esq.); Heaves Lodge, four miles south( James Gandy, Esq.); Sedgwick House, four miles south( John Wakefield, Esq.); Dallam Tower, seven miles south( George Wilson, Esq.); Mosergh House, four miles north( Mr. Machell); Shaw End, five miles north( Henry Shepherd, Esq.); Low Bridge House, six miles north( R. Fothergill, Esq.); Raw Head, four miles east( Mr Sleddall); Hill Top, three miles east( William Wilson, Esq.)
Windermere. 
Small steam-boats have within the last few years been established upon Windermere, which during the summer season make several voyages daily from one extremity of the lake to the other. Windermere is now rendered easy of access to tourists, by the railway which branches from the Lancaster and Carlisle line at Kendal, and terminates about a mile to the north of Bowness, near the shores of the lake at
Birthwaite. 
[ Hotels:-- Windermere.]
On the arrival of the trains, coaches leave the station at Windermere for Ambleside and Keswick, and the mail daily proceeds by this route to Cockermouth, and thence, by railway, to Whitehaven. Coaches also travel daily between the Windermere railway terminus and the town of Hawkshead and Coniston.
We would by all means recommend those strangers who have sufficient time to circumnambulate this, which is the queen of the lake, and largest sheet of water in the district, to do so at an early period of their visit, that the quiet scenery with which it is surrounded may not be considered tame, as will probably be the case if the survey be delayed until the bolder features of the country have been inspected.
Windermere, or more properly Windermere, is about eleven miles in length, and one mile in breadth. It forms part of the county of Westmorland, although the greatest extent of its margin belongs to Lancashire. It has many feeders, the principal of which is formed by the confluence of the Brathay and Rothay shortly before entering the lake. The streams from Troutbeck, Blelham Tarn, and Esthwaite Water also pour in their waters at different points. Numerous islands, varying considerably in size, diversify its surface at no great distance from one another,-- none of them being more than four and a half miles from the central part of the lake. Their names commencing with the most northerly are-- Rough Holm( opposite Rayrigg), Lady Holm( so called from a chapel dedicated to our Lady, which once stood upon it), Hen Holm, House Holm, Thompson's Holm, Curwen's or Belle Isle( round which are several nameless islets), Berkshire Island( a little below the ferry points), Ling Holm, Grass Holm, and Silver Holm. Windermere is deeper than any of the other lakes, with the exception of Wast Water, its depth in some parts being upwards of 240 feet. It is plentifully stocked with perch, pike, trout, and char, which last, at the proper season, is potted in large quantities and forwarded to the south. It is a remarkable fact, that at the spawning season, when the trout and char leave the lake, the former fish invariably takes the Rothay, and the latter the Brathay.
The prevailing character of the scenery around Windermere is soft and graceful beauty. It shrinks from all approach to that wildness and sublimity which characterise some of the other lakes, and challenges admiration on the score of grandeur only at its head, where the mountains rise to a considerable height, and present admirable outlines to the eye of the spectator. The rest of the margin is occupied by gentle eminences, which, being exuberantly wooded, add a richness and a breadth to the scenery which bare hills cannot of themselves bestow. Numerous villas and cottages, gleaming amid the woods, impart an aspect of domestic beauty, which further contributes to enrich the character of the landscape. Around the shores of the lake there are many places which may be made the temporary residence of the tourist while exploring the beauties of the adjacent country, and probably he may find it advantageous to make several of them his abode in succession: Bowness, on the east shore, half way between the two extremities, and therefore the most eligible; Ambleside, one mile beyond the head of the lake; Low Wood Inn, a mile and a half from its head on the east shore; the Ferry Inn on the promontory over against Bowness; and Newby Bridge at its foot,-- all furnish comfortable quarters for the tourist, where boats, guides, and all his other wants can be supplied.
We shall commence our perambulation at the town first named, proceeding along the west border, and returning by the east border of the water.
Bowness. 
[ Hotels:-- Crown.]
This pretty village is placed on the edge of a large bay, opposite Bell Isle, about eight miles from Kendal, and six from Ambleside. It has two excellent hotels, which, from the delightful character of the adjacent country, and the convenient situation of the village for making excursions, are much frequented during the touring season. The Church dedicated to St Martin is an ancient structure with a square tower, and a finely painted chancel window, which originally belonged to Furness Abbey. The churchyard contains a monument erected to the memory of Richard Watson, the late learned Bishop of Llandaff, the author of" the Apology for the Bible," and other well known works. He was born at Haversham, in another part of the county, in which village his fatherw as schoolmaster for upwards of forty eyars. He was interred at this place: the inscription upon his tomb is simple and unpretending. " Richardi Watson, Episcopi Landavensis, cineribus sacrum obiit Julii 1, A.D. 1816, AEtatis 79. The interior of the church may be described in these lines, taken from" the Excursion," which have doubtless been suggested by this, or a similar structure.
" Not raised in nice proportions was the pile, But, large and massy, for duration built; With pillars crowded, and the roof upheld By naked rafters, intricately crossed Like leafless underboughs,' mid some thick grove, All withered by the depth of shade above. Admonitory texts inscribed the walls-- Each in its ornamental scroll inclosed, Each also crowned with winged heads-- a pair Of rudely-painted cherubim. The floor Of nave and aisle, in unpretending guise, Was occupied by oaken benches, ranged In seemly rows------ And marble monuments were here displayed Thronging the walls, and on the floor beneath Sepulchral stones appeared with emblems graven, And foot-worn epitaphs, and some with small And shining effigies of brass inlaid.
The school house has been lately rebuilt through the munificence of the late Mr Bolton of Storrs. It stands on an eminence to the east of the village, and forms a handsome edifice. The view from the front is exquisitely beautiful, comprosing the whole of the upper half of the lake. The mountains round the head, into the recesses of which the waters seems to penetrate, arrange themselves in highly graceful forms, and the wooded heights of the opposite shore cast a deep shadow upon the" bosom of the steady lake." From this point Belle Isle appears to be a portion of the mainland.
In addition to the villas afterwards enumerated, there are in the neighbourhood, Holly Hill( Mrs Bellasis), The Craig( W. R. Gregg, Esq.), Birthwaite( G. Gardener, Esq.), Rayrigg( Major Rodgers,) The Wood( Miss Yates), St Catherine's( the Earl of Bradford), Elleray, Orrest Head( John Braithwaite, Esq.), Belle Grange( Mrs Curwen), Wray( Wm. Wilson, Esq.)
Several interesting walks will be pointed out to strangers, amongst which we may mention those through the parsonage-land to the Ferry Point, and to Storrs. If the tourist will take the trouble to proceed about half a mile along the road to Brant Fell, he will be rewarded by one of the finest views of the lake he can obtain. The Fells of Furness are seen across the lake, but the murmur of
 --" bees that soar for bloom, High as the highest peak of Furness Fells,"
 Wordsworth.
is of course inaudible. A pleasing walk of four or five miles may be obtained here: pursue the road to Ambleside until it enters that from Kendal( this portion of the walk will be particularlized presently): turn to the right, and keep on this road for about a mile. The Wood, St. Catherine's, and Elleray, are passed on the left. The last is the property of Professor Wilson of Edinburgh, and was at one time occupied by the late Major Hamilton, the author of Cyril Thornton, of a history of the Peninsular Campaigns, and other literary works. The house is perched upon the hill-side, having beautiful views of the surrounding scenery visible from its windows. It is thus alluded to in one of the poems of its later owner:
" And sweet that dwelling rests upon the brow( Beneath its sycamore) or Orrest Hill, As if it smiled on Windermere below, Her green recesses and her islands still!"
A narrow lane branches off from the Kendal road near the Orrest Head gate, by which Bowness will be reached one mile and a-half from Orrest Head.
The more distant excursions will include the valley of Troutbeck, the circuit of the two sections of Windermere, Esthwaite Water, and Coniston Lake. These are but a few, but an inspection of the chart will suggest others. Boating upon the lake will probably be the amusement resorted to the earliest and most frequently. The various islands should be visited, especially Belle Isle, upon which strangers are allowed to land. It contains Mr. Curwen's residence, erected in 1776, in the form of a perfect cycle. The island is rather more than a mile in circumference, and contains upwards of thirty acres. It is intersected by neat walks, over which fine trees throw their massy arms. The islet to the left of it is Hen Holm, the next Lady Holm. Wansfell Pike is beheld over the former. The eminences to the right are those of the Kentmore Range, Hill Bell, and High Street. Fairfield is in full view, crowning a chain of hills, terminated by Rydal Nab.
Circuit Of Windermere, From Bowness. 
Quitting Bowness for Ambleside, the stately woods of Rayrigg are entered three - quarters of a mile from the former place. A bay of the lake is then seen to project almost to the road. Rayrigg House stands on the left near the waters' edge; shortly before emerging from the wood, the road ascends a steep hill, and then pursues a level course, affording from its terrace a magnificent view of the lake-- a view" to which," says Wilson," there was nothing to compare in the hanging gardens of Babylon. = there is the widest breadth of water-- the richest foreground of wood-- and the most magnificent background of mountains, not only in Westmorland, but-- believe us-- in all the world." Our old acquaintances, the two Pikes or Langdale are easily recognised. On the left is Bowfell, a square-topped hill, between which and the Pikes, Great End, and Great Gable peep up. On the left of Bowfell, the summit of Scawfell Pike is faintly visible. The road is intersected two miles from Bowness by the Kendal and Ambleside road, at a place called Cook's House, nine miles from Kendal. A road proceeds into Troutbeck Bridge is almost a mile. From this place a road conducts by the west bank of the stream to the village of Troutbeck, the nearest part of which is a mile and a half distant. Continuing our progress towards Ambleside, Calgarth, embossed in trees, is passed on the left. The late Bishop Watson built this mansion, and resided here during the latter years of his life; it is still occupied by his descendants. Two miles beyond is Low Wood Inn, which, standing pleasantly on the margin of the lake at its broadest part, is an excellent station for those who are able to devote a few days to the beauties of the neighbourhood. Most of the excursions recommended to be made from Ambleside may, with almost equal advantage, be performed from this inn. Close at hand is Dove's Nest, the house Mrs. Hemans inhabited one summer. Her description of the place, taken from her delightful letters, will not be deemed uninteresting:--" The house was originally meant for a small villa, though it has long passed into the hands of farmers, and there is, in consequence, an air of neglect about the little demesne, which does not at all approach desolation, and yet it gives it something of touching interest. You see everywhere traces of love and care beginning to be effaced-- rose trees spreading into wildness-- laurels darkening the windows with too luxriant branches; and I cannot help saying to myself,' Perhaps some heart like my own in its feelings and sufferings has here sought refuge and repose.' The ground is laid out in rather an antiquated style; which, now that nature is beginning to reclaim it from art, I do not at all dislike. There is a little grassy terrace immediately under the window, descending to a small court, with a circular grass-plot, on which grows one tall, white-rose tree. You cannot image how much I delight in that fair, solitary, neglected-looking tree. I am writing to you from an old-fashioned alcove in the little garden, round which the sweet-briar and the rose-tree have completely run wild; and I look down from it upon a lovely Winandermere, which seems at this moment even like another sky, so truly is every summer cloud and tint of azure pictured in its transparent mirror.
" I am so delighted with the spot, that I scarcely know how I shall leave it. The situation is one of the but the bright lake before me, with all its fairy things of life' over its blue water, prevents anything like sadness." Wansfell Holm( J. Hornby, Esq.) is seen on the right, immediately before reaching the head of Windermere. The road for the last three or four miles has been alternately approaching to and receding from the margin of the lake, but never retiring further from it than a few fathoms. At Waterhead is the neat residence of Mr. Thomas Jackson, and further on, Waterside( Mr. William Newton,) is passed on the left.
A mile beyond is Ambleside, afterwards described, from which we continue our perambulation. Passing Croft Lodge( J. Holmes, Esq.) on the right, Brathay Bridge is crossed at Clappersgate, one mile from Ambleside, and shortly afterwards Brathay Hall,( G. Redmayne, Esq.) is seen on the left. A bay, called Pull Wyke, there makes a deep indentation; and looking across the lake, Wansfell Holm, Low Wood Inn, and lower down, Calgarth, the seat of the late Bishop Watson, are pleasing objects. Wansfell Pike and the Troutbeck Hundreds tower above them. The road to Hawkshead having deviated to the right, the village of High Wray is gained, five miles from Ambleside; and three miles beyond is the Ferry Inn. At this place the shores suddenly contract, and between the two promontories a public ferry is established, by means of which, passengers, cattle, and vehicles are conveyed across the lake at a trifling charge. About the year 1635, a marriage was celebrated at Hawkshead, between a wealthy yeoman from the neighbourhood of Bowness, and a lady of the family Sawrey of Sawrey. As is still customary in Westmorland amongst the rustic population, the married couple were attended by a numerous concourse of friends, some of whom were probably more than cheerful. In conducting the bridegroom homewards, and crossing the ferry, the boat was swamped, either by an eddy of wind, or by too great a pressure on one side, and thus upwards of fifty people, including the bride and bridegroom, perished. While at the Ferry Inn, the tourist should not fail to visit the Station, a pleasure house belonging to Mr. Curwen of Belle Isle, standing on a spot whence fine views of the circumjacent scenery are commanded. " The view from the Station," says Professor Wilson," is a very delightful one, but it requires a fine day. Its character is that of beauty, which disappears almost utterly in wet or drizzly weather. If there be a strong bright sunshine. a' blue breeze' perhaps gives animation to the scene. You look down on the islands whih are here very happily disposed. The banks of Windermere are rich and various in groves, woods, coppice, and corn-fields. The large deep valley of Troutbeck stretches finely away up to the mountains of High Street and Hill Bell-- hill and eminence are all cultivated wherever the trees have been cleared away, and numerous villas are visible in every direction, which, although not perhaps all built on very tasteful models, have yet an airy and sprightly character; and with their fields of brighter verdure and sheltering groves, may be fairly allowed to add to, rather than detract from, the beauty of a scene, one of whose chief charms is that it is the cheerful abode of social life." At a short distance from the land is Belle Isle, upon which stands-- 
" A Grecian temple rising from the deep."
the residence of H. Curwen Esq. The island is rather more than a mile in circumference, containing upwards of thirty acres. Neat walks, over which fine trees throw their massive arms, intersect the island, which in high floods is cut in two. Strangers are allowed to land; and as the views are extremely pleasing, they should avail themselves of the privilege. The village of Bowness is a pretty object on the east margin of the lake. One mile and half from the Ferry Inn, the stream called Cunsey, which runs from Esthwaite Water, is crossed. At a short distance from the place where this stream joins the lake, is the island called Ling Holm. On the opposite margin, the Storrs promontory is seen projecting into the lake. Two miles beyond is the village of Graithwaite, in the vicinity of which is Graithwaite Hall,( J.J. Rawlinson, Esq.) From this place to Newby Bridge the road passes through a woodland section of the country, consisting chiefly of coppices. As the foot of the lake is approached, it narrows rapidly and becomes truly
" Wooded Windermere, the river - lake."
This island was formerly the property and residence of the Philipsons, an ancient Westmorland family, who were also owners of Calgarth. During the civil war between Charles I. and the Parliament, there were two brothers, both of whom had espoused the royal cause. The elder, to whom the island belonged, was a Colonel, and the younger a Major in the royal army. The latter was a man of high and adventurous courage; and from some of his desperate exploits had acquired amongst the Parliamentarians the appellation of Robin the Devil. It happened when the king's death had extinguished for a time the ardour of the cavaliers, that a certain Colonel Briggs, an officer in Oliver's army, resided in Kendal, who having heard that Major Philipson was secreted in his brother's house on Belle Isle, went thither armed with his double authority,( for he was a civil magistrate as well as a military man-- 
Great on the bench, great in the saddle, Mighty he was at both of these, And styled of War as well as Peace,)
with the view of making a prisoner of so obnoxious a person. The Major, however, was on the alert, and gallantly withstood the siege of eight months, until his brother came to his relief. The attack being thus repulsed, the Major was not a man who would sit down quietly under the injury he had received. He therefore raised a small band of horse and set forth one Sunday morning in search of Briggs. Upon arriving at Kendal, he was informed that the Colonel was at prayers. Without further consideration he proceeded to the church, and having posted his men at the entrance, dashed forward himself down the principal aisle into the midst of the assemblage. Whatever were his intentions-- whether to shoot the Colonel on the spot, or merely to carry him off prisoner-- they were defeated; his enemy was not present. The congregation was at first too much surprised to seize the Major, who, in discovering that his object could not be effected, galloped up the next aisle. As he was making his exit from the church, his head came violently in contact with the arch of the door-way, which was much smaller than that through which he had entered. His helmet was struck off by the blow, his saddle girth gave way, and he himself was much stunned. The congregation, taking advantage of the confusion, attempted to seize him; but with the assistance of his followers, the Major made his escape after a violent struggle, and rode back to his brother's house. The helmet still hangs in one of the aisle of Kendal church. This incident furnished Sir Walter Scott with a hint for his description of a similar adventure in Rokeby, canto vi.
" All eyes upon the gateway hung, When through the Gothic arch there sprung A horseman armed at headlong speed-- Sable his cloak, his plume, his steed-- Fire from the flinty floor was spurned, The vaults unwonted clang returned! One instant's glance around he threw From saddlebrow his pistol drew, Grimly determined was his look, His charger with his spurs he struck-- All scattered backward as he came, For all knew Bertram Risingham. Three bounds that noble courser gave, The first has reached the central nave, The second he cleared the chancel wide, The third he was at Wycliffe's side. ***** While yet the smoke and deed conceals, Bertram his ready charger wheels-- But floundered on the pavement floor, The steed and down the rider bore-- And bursting in the headlong away, The faithless saddle-girths gave way. ' Twas while he toiled him to be freed, And with the rein to raise the steed, That from amazement's iron trance, All Wycliffe's soldiers waked at once."-- 
Landing,( John Harrison, Esq.,) is passed on the left shortly before reaching Newby Bridge, at which there is a comfortable inn. The stream which issues from the lake takes the name of the Leven. From this place to the principal towns in the neighbourhood, the distances are:-- Ulverston, eight miles. Kendal, by way of Cartmel Fell, ten miles-- by Leven's Bridge, fifteen miles. Ambleside, by the road we have descended, fifteen miles. Bowness, nine miles. On crossing the bridge, Mr Machell's neat residence is seen on the right, and further on, Fell Foot,(-- Starkie, Esq.,) is passed on the left; a short distance beyond, Town Head,( Wm. Townley, Esq.,) is near the road on the left, about two miles from Newby Bridge. The road passes under an eminence of the Cartmell Fell chain, called Gummer's How, which forms a conspicuous object in all views from the upper end of the lake. Six miles from Newby Bridge is Storrs Hall, the mansion of the late John Bolton, Esq.( now Rev. T. Stanaforth), seated amonst fine grounds which extend to the margin of the lake. It was built by Sir John Legard, Bart., but extensive additions were made by its late owner. Here Mr Canning was wont to pay frequent visits, withdrawing for a time from the cares of public life to breathe the fresh air of nature. The road leading from Kendal to the ferry is next crossed, and soon afterwards Ferney Green( George Greaves, Esq.), Burnside( G. A. Aufrer, Esq.), and Belle Field,( Mark Beaufoy, Esq.), are successively passed immediately before Bowness, the termination of our perambulation of twenty - nine miles is regained.
The following passage from Mr Lockhart's Life of Scott graphically describes one of these visits, to which the presence of Wordsworth, Southey, Scott, and Professor Wilson gave peculiar interest.
" A large company had been assembled at Mr Bolton's seat in honour of the minister-- it included Mr Wordsworth and Mr Southey. It has not, I suppose, often happened to a plain English merchant, wholly the architect of his own fortunes, to entertain at one time a party embracing so many illustrious names. He was proud of his guests; they respected him, and honoured and loved each other; and it would have been difficult to say which star in the constellation shone with the brightest or the softest light. There was' high discourse,' intermingled with as gay flashings of courtly wit as ever Canning displayed; and a plentiful allowance on all sides of those airy transient pleasantries in which the fancy of poets, however wise and grave, delights to run riot when they are sure not to be misunderstood. There were beautiful and accomplished women to adorn and enjoy this circle. The weather was as Elysian as the scenery. There were brilliant cavalcades through the woods in the mornings, and delicious boatings on the lake by moonlight; and the last day, Professor Wilson(' the Admiral of the Lake,' as Canning called him,) presided over one of the most splendid regattas that ever enlivened Windermere. Perhaps they were not fewer than fifty barges following in the Professor's radiant procession when it paused at the point of Storrs to admit into the place of honour the vessel that carried kind and happy Mr Bolton and his guests. The three bads of the lakes led the cheers that hailed Scott and Canning; and music, and sunshine, flags, streamers, and gay dresses, the merry hum of voices, and the rapid splashing of innumerable oars, made up a dazzling mixture of sensations as the flotilla wound its way among the richly-foliaged islands, and along bays and promontories peopled with enthusiastic spectators."
Ambleside. 
[ Inns.-- Salutations; Commercial; White Lion.]
Ambleside, a small and irregularly built market-town of 1592 inhabitants, is situate on steeply inclined ground, a mile from the head of Windermere, upon or near to the spot formerly occupied by the Roman Station-- Dictis. Lying immediately under Wansfell, and surrounded by mountains on all sides, except towards the south-west, the situation is one of great beauty, and consequently during summer it is much frequented by tourists, who make it their abode for some time. There are several inns; two of which, the Salutation and the Commercial, are excellent establishments. The chapel is a modern structure, having been rebuilt in 1812. In a field near the edge of the lake, are the indistinct remains of Roman fortifications, where coins, urns, and other relics, have been requently discovered. Numerous excursions may be made from Ambleside; and the interesting walks in the immediate neighbourhood are still more abundant. A few only can here be specified.
The valley of Ambleside, on the border of which the town stands, is well wooded, and watered by several streams; the principal river is the Rothay, which flows from Grasmere and Rydal Lakes, and joins the Brathay, shortly before entering Windermere. Upon Stock Ghyll, a tributary to the Rothay, there is a fine fall, or force, in a copsewood, about 700 yards from the Market Cross, the road to which passes behind Salutation Inn. The fall, or rather falls, for there are four, are 70 feet in height. Portions of all four are visible from the usual stand; but the views may be pleasingly varied by descending the bank to the stream, or proceeding farther up the Gill. Indeed, if the walk were continued for a mile alongside the stream, which rises in the Screes on the Scandale Fell, much beautiful scenery would be seen.
Loughrigg Fell, a rocky hill which rises opposite to the town, to an elevation of 1000 feet above Windermere, commands extensive prospects of the vale and surrounding mountains, as well as of Windermere, Grasmere, and Rydal Lakes, Blelham, Loughrigg, and Elterwater Tarns, with the towns of Ambleside and Hawkshead.
From the summit of Wansfell Pike,( 1590 feet in height,) which stands on the east, the mountains have a highly imposing appearance, and thence may be seen the whole expanse of Windermere, with its islands; but on account of the altitude of the spectator, the view is not so fine as that from another part of the Pike, called Troutbeck Hundreds, a little to the south.
The village of Rydal, supposed to be a contraction of Rothay Dale, is placed in a narrow gorge, formed by the advance of Loughrigg fell and Rydal Knab, at the lower extremity of Rydal Mere, one mile and a quarter from Ambleside. Here, in the midst of a park containing great numbers of noble forest trees, stands Rydal Hall, the seat of Rev. Sir R. Fleming. The celebrated falls are within the park, and strangers desirous to view them, must take a conductor from one of the cottages near the Hall gates. The fall below the house is beheld from the window of an old summer house. Amongst the juvenile poems of Wordsworth there is a sketch of this cascade. -- 
" While thick above the rill the branches close, In rocky basin its wild waves repose, Inverted shrubs, and moss of gloomy green, Cling from the rocks with pale wood-weeds between; Save that aloft the subtle sunbeams shine On withered briars, that over the crags recline, Sole light admitted there, a small cascade Illumes with sparkling foam the impervious shade; Beyond, along the vista of the brook, Where antique roots its bristling course overlook, The eye reposes on a secret bridge, Half grey, half shagged with ivy to its ridge."
 " The sylvan, or say rather the forest scenery of Rydal Park, was, in the memory of living men, magnificent, and it still contains a treasure of old trees. By all means wander away into those old woods, and lose yourselves for an hour or two ampong the echoing of cushats, and the shrill shriek of startled blackbirds, and the rustle of the harmless glow-worm among the last year's red beech leaves. No very great harm should you even fall asleep under the shadow of an oak, while the magpie chatters at safe distance, and the more innocent squirrel peeps down upon you from a bough of canopy, and then hoisting his tail, glides into the obscurity of the loftiest umbrage."-- Professor Wilson.
The chapel, from its prominent position, arrests the stranger's notice the moment he arrives at the village. It was erected by Lady le Fleming in 1824, at her own expense.
Rydal Mount, for many years the dwelling of the poet Wordsworth, stands on a projection of the hill called Knab Scar, and is approached by the road leading to the Hall. It is, as Mrs Hemana in one of her letters describes it," a lovely cottage-like building, almost hidden by a profusion of roses and ivy." The grounds, laid out in a great measure by the hands of the poet himself, though but of circumscribed dimensions, are so artfully, whilst seeming to be artlessly planned, as to appear of considerable extent. From a grassy mound in front," commanding a view always so rich, and sometimes so brightly solemn, that one can well imagine its influence traceable in many of the poet's writings, you catch a gleam of Windermere over the grove tops,-- close at hand are Rydal Hall, and its ancient woods,-- right opposite the Loughrigg Fells, ferny, rocky, and sylvan, and to the right Rydal Mere, scarcely seen through embowering trees, whilst just below, the chapel lifts up its little tower."
The walk to Rydal, on the banks of the Rothay, under Loughrigg Fell, is extremely delightful. Though more circuitous than the highway, it presents finer combinations of scenery. The tourist, intending to take this round, should pursue the road to Clappersgate for half a mile to Rothay Bridge, and having crossed the bridge, enter the first gate on the right. The road leads alongside the river, passing many handsome villas, to Pelter Bridge, 2 ½ miles. Rydal Hall, with its park, and Rydal Mount, will be frequently in sight. Behind, Ambleside, backed by Wansfell, has a picturesque appearance. On the right are the heights of Fairfield and Kirkstone. By crossing the bridge, the Keswick road will be gained, and the tourist can then either return to Ambleside, or proceed to Rydal, which is 300 or 400 yards further. Those who are fond of long walks ought to abstain from crossing the bridge, but, keeping to the left, pursue the road behind the farm house, called Coat How, which leads along the south-west shore of Rydal Mere. This mere being passed, the road ascends the hill side steeply for some time, until it reaches a splendid terrace, overlooking Grasmere Lake, with its single islet, and then, climbing again, joins on Red Bank the Grasmere, and Langdale road. Here the tourist has the choice of returning to Ambleside by Loughrigg Tarn and Clappersgate, or proceeding to Grasmere village, in doing which he will pass in succession Tail End, the Wyke, and the Cottage. The village is a sweet little place, at the head of the lake, 4 miles from Ambleside. In the churchyard are interred the remains of the poet Wordsworth. An excellent hotel( The Lowther and Hollins) has recently been opened on an eminence overlooking the high road from Ambleside to Keswick. Allan Bank, the residence of Thomas Dawson, Esq., stands on a platform of ground behind the village. The house was, for some time, the abode of Wordsworth. The house, however, in which he lived for many years, and in which he composed many of his most beautiful pieces, is at Grasmere Town End. The singularly shaped hill, called Helm Crag, is conspicuously visible from Grasmere. Its apex exhibits so irregular an outline, as to have given rise to numberless whimsical comparisons. Gray compares it to a gigantic building demolished, and the stones which composed it flung across in wild confusion. And Wordsworth speaks of
" The ancient Woman seated on Helm Crag."
The narrow valley of Easedale, a dependency of Grasmere, lying in a recess between Helm Crag and Silver How, deserves a visit for its picturesque and secluded beauty.
" The spot was made by nature for herself."
It contains a large tarn, and a small cascade, called Sour Milk Gill. The melancholy fate of John and Sarah Green, who lived in this vale, is now pretty generally known through Mr De Quincy, who published an account of it in Tait's Magazine for September 1839.
This is by far the best station for viewing the Lake and Vale of Grasmere. Probably it was this very view that called from Mrs Hemans her sonnet entitled
 A Remembrance Of Grasmere.
" O vale and lake, within your mountain urn, Smiling so tranquilly, and set so deep! Oft doth your dreamy loveliness return, Colouring the tender shadows of my sleep With light Elysian;-- for the hues that steep Your shore in melting lustre, seem to float On golden clouds from spirit-lands remote Isles of the blest;-- and in our memory keep Their place with holiest harmonies. Fair scene Most loved by evening and her dewy star! Oh! never may man, with touch unhallowed, jar The perfect music of the charm serene! Still, still unchanged, may one a sweet region wear Smiles that subdue the soul to love, and tears, and prayer!
The whole valley of Grasmere, in fact, teems with memorials of Wordsworth. There is scarcely a crag, a knoll, or a rill, which he has not embalmed in verse. To this cottage at Town End, which is now partially hidden from those on the highway, by the intervention of some later built cottages, Wordsworth brought his bride in 1802. Previous to his departure to fetch her, he composed his Farewell, in which these lines occur,-- 
" Farewell, thou little nook of mountain ground, Thou rocky corner in the lowest stair Of that magnificent Temple, which doth bound One side of our whole vale with grandeur rare; Sweet garden-orchard, eminently fair, The loveliest spot that man hat ever found!"
About a mile from Grasmere, on an eminence, over which the old road to Ambleside passes, and exactly opposite to the middle of the lake, is the Wishing Gate. It has been so called, time out of mind, from a belief that wishes formed or indulged there have a favourable issue. Apart from any adventitious interest, the gate is an excellent station for viewing the lake.
A pleasing excursion, of ten miles, into the retired side-valley of Troutbeck, may be conveniently taken from Ambleside. As the latter part of the route is practicable for horsemen and pedestrians only, those who take conveyances will be compelled to return by the road they went, as soon as they arrive at the head of Troutbeck, unless they proceed by way of Kirkstone to Patterdale. The tourist must pursue the Kendal road for two miles, and take the first road on the left when he has passed Low Wood Inn. From the eminences of this road, many exquisite views of Windermere are obtained; and, perhaps, the finest view of the lake that can be had from any station, is that from the highest part of it. The mountains in the west present an admirable outline, and the whole length of the lake stretches out before the spectator,
 ---- with all its fairy crowds Of islands, that together lie As quietly as spots of sky Amongst the evening clouds."
" There is not," says Professor Wilson," such another splendid prospect in all England. The lake has much of the character of a river, without losing its own. The islands are seen almost all lying together in a cluster-- which all is loveliness and beauty-- above, all majesty and grandeur. Bold or gentle promontories break all the banks into frequent bays, seldom without a cottage or cottages embowered in trees; and, while the whole landscape is of a sylvan kind, parts of it are so laden with woods, that you see only here and there a wreath of smoke, but no houses, and could almost believe that you are gazing on the primeval forest." One mile and a half from Low Wood, one extremity of the' long vale-village' of Troutbeck is reached, at a point about a mile from Troutbeck Bridge. The rude picturesqueness of its many - chimneyed cottages, with their numbered gables and slate-slab porticoes, will not be passed unnoticed by the tourist, as he bends his way towards the hills. " The cottages( says the writer from whom our last extract was made) stand for the most part in clusters of twos and threes, with here and there what in Scotland is called a clachan-- many a sma' toun within the ae lang toun-- but where in all broad Scotland is a mile-long scattered congregation of rural dwellings, all dropped down where the Painter and the Poet would have wished to plant them, on knolls and in dells, on banks and braes, and below tree-crested rocks, and all bound together in picturesque confusion, by old groves of ash, oak, and sycamore, and by flower gardens and fruit orchards, rich as those of the Hesperides?" The road pursues the western side of the valley, at some distance from the lowest level, which is occupied by the stream giving its name to the village. On the opposite side, the Howe, the residence of Captain Wilson, R. N., will be observed, and further on, the chapel is perceived on the banks of the stream, near the bridge, by which the roads are connected. That on the east side is the most direct road from Bowness to the valley, but it is objectionable on account of its not conducting the traveller through the village. The road on the western flank joins the Kendal and Ambleside road at Troutbeck Bridge, keeping throughout on the banks of the stream, the meanderings of which, on its way to Windermere, round rugged scaurs and wooded banks, are continually in sight. Half a mile before the chapel, is the only inn in the valley, bearing the quaint title of" The Mortal Man,"-- a name acquired from the lines, composed, doubtless, by some native poet, which a few years ago decorated the sign-board-- 
" O Mortal Man, who livest on bread, What is' t that makes thy nose so red?  -- Thou silly ass, that looks so pale, It is with drinking Birkett's ale."
Two miles beyond the inn, the tourist has immediately below him, a tongue or swelling from the bottom of the vale called Troutbeck Park, which is visible even from the surface of Windermere. Taking his station here, and turning to the north-east, the spectator has the mountains of Kentmere before him. The nearest elevation is called the Yoke, the two next, having the appearance of the humps on a dromedary's back, are Hill Bell and Froswick,-- and further on is High Street. Having left the Mortal Man three miles behind, and climbed the side of Kirkstone for some distance, a road through the fields, on the left, will be discovered, which passes in succession three farm-houses, High Grove, Middle Grove, and Low Grove, in Stockdale, and enters Ambleside, three miles from the deviation.
A favourite excursion, with the temporary residents in Ambleside, is that through the two Langdales. If the object of the tourist be merely to view the vale of Great Langdale( the finer of the two) with Dungeon Gill Force, and to ascend the Pikes, he will traverse a road perfectly practicable for carriages; but if he desire to see something more of the country, by visiting Skelwith and Colwith Forces, Little Langdale and Blea Tarns, he must be content to go on horseback, in a car, or on foot. This circuit, which we shall describe, is about eighteen miles in length. With the intention, then, of visiting the two Langdales. If the object of the tourist be merely to view the vale of Great Langdale( the finer of the two) with Dungeon Gill Force, and to ascend the Pikes, he will traverse a road perfectly practicable for carriages; but if he desires to see sometime more of the country, by visiting Skelwith and Colwith Forces, Little Langdale and Blea Tarn, he must be content to go on horseback, in a car, or on foot. This circuit, which we shall describe, is about eighteen miles in length. With the intention, then, of visitinf the two Langdales in succession, the tourist will leave Ambleside by the road to Clappersgate, winding on the banks of the Brathay,( near the source of which he will be ere long,) under the craggy heights of Loughrigg Fell. A newly-built chapel will be observed in a charming situation on the south bank of the river. " Sweeter stream-scenery," says Wilson," with richer fore, and loftier back-ground, is nowhere to be seen within the fear seas." A few hundred yards above Skelwith Bridge( three miles from Ambleside) the stream is precipitated over a ledge of rock, making a fall twenty feet in height. The cascade is not so remarkable in itself, as for the magnificent scenery around it. Langdale Pikes have a particularly striking appearance. By this bridge the traveller is conducted into Lancashire, in which county the road does not continue for more than a mile before it re-enters Westmorland at Colwith Bridge. A short distance above the bridge, the stream, issuing from a tarn further up, makes a fine cascade called Colwith Force. It is in a dell close to the road, and is about 70 feet high. A stupendous mountain, called Wetherlamb, occupies a conspicuous position in a chain of lofty hills on the south-west. Proceeding, Little Langdale Tarn becomes visible on the left-- on the right is Lingmoor, a hill which serves as a partition between the two Langdales. At the termination of the inclosed land, amongst a few trees, are two dwellings, called Fell Foot, seven and a-half miles from Ambleside. One of them was formerly an inn, whereat the gangs of pack-horses were refreshed previous to their ascent of the mountain passes of Wrynose and Hardknot-- this being the route by which the manufactures of Kendal were transported to the western coast. Taking the road to the right, and ascending some distance between the mountains, a solitary pool of water, named Blea Tarn, is perceived in the bottom of an elevated depression.
Those magnificent objects,-- 
 ---- the two huge peaks That from some other vale peer into this,
are the two Pikes of Langdale. The more southern one is named Pike o' Stickle-- the other, and higher, Harrison Stickle. Having passed the tarn, the road winds down a steep descent into the head of Great Langdale, that part of it called Mickleden, through which is the road over the Stake into Borrowdale, being right before the eye. Mill Becks, a farm-house, at which refreshment is usually taken, is soon reached. Here a guide to Dungeon Gill Force, and to the summit of the Pikes, can be obtained. The former is a fall of water, formed by a stream which runs down a fissure in the mountain's side not far above the house. A curious natural arch has been made, by a large stone having rolled from a higher part of the mountain, and got wedge in between the cheeks of rock. Over the bridge thus formed, ladies have been known, like Wordsworth's Idle Shepherd Boy, to possess the intrepidity to pass. Two roads traverse the valley, one of which keeps under the hills on the left, the other takes the middle of the vale;-- the former is to be preferred by those unencumbered with carriages. One mile and a half from Mill Becks, is the little Chapel of Langdale, whence a road strikes up the hill-side, crossing Red Bank into Rydal, or Grasmere. A large sheet of water, lying amongst the meadows, which now comes into sight, is Elterwater Tarn, at the head of which stands Elterwater Hall. The stream feeding the tarn is crossed by a bridge, a short distance above the tarn. Near the bridge are the works of Elterwater Gunpowder Company. A little further in a recess, on the flank of Loughrigg Fell, is Loughrigg Tarn, a lovely spot on which Wilson has composed some beautiful lines. Ambleside is only three miles beyond.
" There is a spot which you may see If ever you to Langdale go. Into a chasm, a mighty block Hath fallen, and made a bridge of rock: The gulf is deep below, And in a basin black and small, Receives a lofty Waterfall. 
 Wordsworth.
Ambleside abounds with villas. Among them may be named, Fox Ghyll( H. Roughsedge, Esq.), Fow Howe( Mrs Arnold), Rothay Bank( J. Crossfield, Esq.), Oak Bank( C. Robinson, Esq.), The Cottage( H. P. Lutwidge, Esq.), The Oaks( Dr Davy), The Knoll( Miss Martineau), Covey Cottage( G. Partridge, Esq.), Bellevue( M. Harrison, Esq.), Green Bank( B. Harrison, Esq.), Hill Top( T. Carr, Esq.), Brathay Hall( G. Redmayne, Esq.), Croft Lodge( J. Holmes, Esq.), Wanlass How( Mrs Brenchley), Wansfell Holme( J. Hornby, Esq.), Wray Castle( J. Dawson, Esq.), Rydal Hall( Rev. Sir R. Fleming,) Rydal Mount( the residence of the late William Wordsworth, Esq.), Glen Rothay( W. Ball Esq.), Allan Bank( Thomas Dawson, Esq.), The Cottage( Mrs. Orrell).
Ulverston. 
[ Inns:-- Sun; Braddyll's Arms.]
Ulverston, a market-town and port, containing about 6433 inhabitants, situate in that division of Lancashire, termed" North of the Sands," is supposed to derive its name from Ulph, a Saxon Lord. It is about a mile from the estuary of the Leven, with which is it connected by a canal, constructed in 1795, and capable of floating vessels of 200 tons. The appearance of the town is neat, the greater part of the houses being of modern erection. The parish church, dedicated to St Mary, received considerable additions in 1804; but a tower and Norman doorway of the old structure still remain. From the sloping ground behind the church, a delightful view of the bay and neighbouring country may be obtained. A new and elegant church, dedicated to the Holy Trinity, was erected at the upper end of the town in 1832. Amongst other buildings of recent erection, the Savings' Bank may be noticed. The town contains a Theatre, Assembly Room, and Subscription Library, and two good Inns,-- the Sun and Bradyll's Arms. Ship Building is carried on to some extent; and the manufacture of check, canvas, and hats, is a considerable branch of trade.
The Duke of Buccleuch is Lord of the liberty of Furness, or which the Manor of Ulverston forms part.
Conishead Priory, the seat of T.R.G. Braddyll, Esq., has been termed, from its beautiful situation," the Paradise of Furness." It is situated two miles south of Ulverstone, near the sea-shore, in an extensive and well-wooded park, which is intersected, like most old parks, with public roads, forming a favourite promenade for the inhabitants of the town. The mansion, which has lately been rebuilt in a style of magnificence of which there are few examples in the north of England, occupies the site of the ancient Priory, founded by William de Lancaster, the fourth in descent from Ivo de Taillebois, first Baron of Kendal, in the reign of Henry Ii. Upon the dissolution of the religious houses, it fell into the hands of Henry the Viii., whose cupidity was excited by the great extent of its landed possessions. The interior of the mansion possesses some good paintings of Titian, the Carracci, Romney, Reynolds, and other celebrated painters. Holkder Hall, a seat of the Earl of Burlington, is placed in a noble park on the opposite shore of the Leven, about three and a half miles east of Ulverston. The noble owner has a good collection of pictures, among which are many excellent paintings by Romney.
Six miles north-east of Ulverston is the village of Cartmell, in which is an ancient church, once a priory, of unusual size and beauty, dedicated to the Virgin. A short distance from the village is a medicinal spring called Holywell. Six miles and a half to the south-west of Ulverston, in a close valley called Beckansgill, or the glen of deadly nightshade, from that plant being found there in great abundance, are the beautiful remains of Furness Abbey, now belonging to the Earl of Burlington. This abbey was founded in 1127, by Stephen, Earl of Montaigne and Boulogne, afterwards King of England;" This prince conferred the greater part of the district, excepting the land of Michael Fleming, on the Abbey of Furness, by a charter dated 1126, in which, for the first time, the name Furness,' Fudernesia' or the further ness, is found. By this institution it was held till the dissolution, when it reverted to the Crown, and became part of the duchy of Lancaster. In the year 1662, it was granted by Charles Ii. to the Duke of Albemarle, and his heirs, with all the rights, privileges, and jurisdictions belonging thereto. The Lordship is now held by the Duke of Buccleuch and Lord Beaulieu, to whom the property of the Duke of Albemarle descended by marriage. In the early part of English history, the Falls of Furness formed the boundary between Scotland and England, and in 1138, a terrible eruption from the north laid the whole peninsula desolate. The ruins of the castle of Pile of Fouldrey, form a monument of that invasion."
 Baines' Hist. of Lancashire, Vol. iv. p. 627.
The ruins amply attest the former magnificence of the structure. The length of the church in 287 feet, the nave is 70 feet broad, and the walls in some places 54 feet high, and 5 feet thick. The walls of the church, and those of the chapter-house, the refectorium, and the school-house, are still in great part remaining, and exhibit fine specimens of Gothic architecture; the chapter-house, 60 feet by 45, has been a sumptuous apartment; the roof, which was of fret-work, was supported by six channelled pillars. The great east window, the four seats near it, adorned with Gothic ornaments, and four statues, found in the ruins, are particularly worthy of notice.
By the ebbing of the tide, the sands of Morecambe Bay, lying between Lancaster( hence usually termed the Lancaster Sands) and Ulverston, are twice a day, to the extent of several miles, left perfectly dry, except in the channels of the rivers Kent and Leven, and may be crossed by vehicles of every description. Guides, who are renumerated by Government, are stationed at the places where the rivers flow, to conduct travellers across in safety. The whole distance from Lancaster to Ulverston is twenty - two miles. From Hest Bank, is a distance of eleven miles. Three miles of terra firma are then crossed, and three miles of sand follow, lying between the shores of the Leven estuary, from the nearest of which Ulverston is distant something more than a mile. If the proper time be chosen,( which can be easily ascertained by inquiry at Lancaster and Ulverston,) there is no danger in crossing these sandy plains, and yet few years pass in which lives are not lost.
 " I must not omit to tell you that Mr Wordsworth not only admired our exploit in crossing the Ulverston as a deed of' derring do,' but as a decided proof of taste; the lake scenery, he says, is never seen to such advantage as after the passage of what he calls its majestic barrier."-- Mrs Hemans' Letters.
Keswick. 
[ Hotels:-- Royal Oak; Queen's Head; King's Arms.]
Keswick, a market-town in the parish of Crosthwaite, and county of Cumberland, is situate on the south bank of the Greta, in a large and fertile vale, little more than a mile from the foot of Skiddaw, and half a mile from Derwentwater. It contains 2618 inhabitants, and consists of one large street. The principal manufactures are linsey-wolsey stuffs, and edge-tools, particularly the former. Black Lead pencils, made of plumbargo( or wad, as it is provincially called,) extracted from the min in Borrowdale, are also a considerable branch of manufacture. Char, taken in Buttermere lake, is potted in large quantities during the proper season, and forwarded to the south of England. The Town Hall, erected in 1813, upon the site of the old Court House, stands in the centre of the town. The clock-bell, which was taken from a building that formerly stood on Lord's Island in the lake, has the letters and figures" H.D.R.O. 1001," upon it,-- a decisive proof of its high antiquity. The parish church, an ancient structure, dedicated to St. Kentigern, stands three quarters of a mile distant. A new church of elegant proportions was erected on the east of the town by the late John Marshall, Esq., who became lord of the manor by purchasing the forfeited estates of Ratcliffe, Earl of Derwentwater, from the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, to whom they were granted by the Crown. A manorial court is held annually in May. The two museums, kept by Messrs Crosthwaite and Hutton, deserve a visit, as they contain specimens illustrating the natural history of the neighbourhood, as well as many foreign curiosities. Minerals and geological specimens are kept on sale. Mr Flintoff's accurate model of the lake district, the labour of many years, should also be inspected. For the tourist this model possesses peculiar interest, exhibiting, as it does, an exact representation of the country through which he is travelling, with every object minutely laid down, and the whole coloured after nature. The dimensions of the model are 12 feet 9 inches by 9 feet 3 inches. There are two good hotels, the Royal Oak and the Queen's Head, besides numerous inns, at which guides, ponies, boatmen, and boats can be obtained. Tourists desiring to make a prolonged stay may also be accommodated with comfortable lodgings at many private houses.
Greta Hall, the residence of the late Dr Southey, the Poet Laureate, is seated on a slight eminence near the town, about 200 yards to the right of the bridge across the river on the road to Cockermouth. The scenery visible from the windows has been finely sketched by himself in these hexametrical lines:
" Twas at that sober hour when the light of day is receding, And from surrounding things the hues wherewith day has adorned them Fade like the hopes of youth till the beauty of youth is departed: Pensive, though not in thought, I stood at the window beholding Mountain, and lake, and vale; the valley disrobed of its verdure; Derwent retaining yet from eve a glassy reflection, Where his expanded breast, then still and smooth as a mirror, Under the woods reposed; the hills that calm and majestic Lifted their heads into the silent sky, from far Glaramara, Bleacrag, and Maidenmawr to Grisedal and westernmost Wythop. Dark and distinct they rose. The clouds had gathered above them, High in the middle air huge purple pillowy masses. While in the west beyond was the last pale tint of the twilight, Green as the stream in the glen, whose pure and chrysolite waters Flow over a schistous bed, and serene as the age of the righteous. Neither man was heard, bird, beast, nor humming insect, Only the voice of the Greta, heard only when all is in stillness."
The lake sometimes called Keswick Lake, but better known by the name of
Derwentwater, 
is about half a mile from the town. A scene of more luxuriant beauty than this lake affords can scarcely be imaged. Its shape is symmetrical without being formal, while its size is neither so large as to merge the character of the lake in that of the inland sea, nor so circumscribed as to expose it to the charge of insignificance. The admirers or nature are divided in opinion as to the respective merits of this lake and Ulleswater; some assigning the palm of superiority to the one and some to the other. Those who are familiar with the Alpine scenery of Scotland, which so far surpasses in savage grandeur any thing within the limits of the sister country, almost uniformly give the preference to Derwentwater, while those who have not possessed opportunities of contemplating nature in her sterner moods are more deeply impressed with the more majestic attributes of her rival.
Derwentwater approaches to the oval form, extending from north to south about three miles, and being in breadth about a mile and a half," expanding within an ampitheatre of mountains, rocky but not vast, broken into many fantastic shapes, peaked, splintered, impending, sometimes pyramidal, opening by narrow vallies to the view of rocks that rise immediately beyond, and are again overlooked by others. The precipices seldom overshoot the water, but are arranged at some distance; and the shore swell with woody eminences, or sink into green pastoral margins. Masses of wood also frequently appear among the cliffs, feathering them to their summits; and a white cottage sometimes peeps from out their skirts, seated on the smooth knoll of a pasture projecting to the lake, and looks so exquisitely picturesque, as to seem placed there purposely to adorn it. The lake in return faithfully reflects the whole picture, and so even and brilliantly translucent is its surface, that it rather heightens than obscures the colouring."
 So transparent is the water, that pebbles may be easily seen fifteen or twenty feet below its surface.
The principal islands in the lake are Vicar's Isle, Lord's Island, and St Herbert's Isle. Vicar's Isle or Derwent Isle is that nearest the foot of the lake; it contains about six acres, and belongs to Captain Henry, whose residence is upon it. Lord's Island, of a size somewhat larger than the last, has upon it the hardly perceptible remains of a pleasure-house, erected by on the Ratcliffes wiht the stones of their deserted castle which stood on Castlerigg. This island was once connected with the mainlain, from which it was severed by the Ratcliffes, by a fosse, over which a drawbridge was thrown. St Herbert's Isle, placed nearly in the centre of the lake, derives its name from a holy hermit who lived in the seventh century, and had his cell on this island. The remains of the hermitage are still visible. To St Cuthbert of Durham this" saintly eremite" bore so perfect a love as to pray that he himself might expire the moment the breath of life quitted the body of his friend, so that their souls might wing their flight to Heaven in company.
Near the ruins, the late Sir Wilfred Lawson,( to whose representative the island at present belongs,) erected a few years ago a small cottage which, being built of unhewn stone, and artificially mossed over, has a venerable appearance. There are three or four other islets, the largest of which is Rampsholm. At irregular intervals of a few years, the lake exhibits a singular phenomenon in the rising of a piece of ground, called The Floating Island, from the bottom to the surface of the water. Its superficial extent varies in different years, from an acre to a few perches. It is composed of earthy matter, six feet in thickness, covered with vegetation, and is full of air-bubbles, which, it is supposed, by penetrating the whole mass, diminish its specific gravity, and are the cause of its buoyancy. This natural phenomenon is situate about 150 yards from the shore, near Lowdore.
The walks in the neighbourhood of Keswick are numerous and interesting. From Crow Park and Friar Crag, two places situate on the east shore, near the foot of the lake, beautiful views of the lake, vale, and surrounding mountains are obtained. From a wooded eminence called Castle Head, standing on the left of Borrowdale road, about half a mile from Keswick, there is an enchanting prospect extending on the south into the" Jaws of Borodale," in which Castle Crag appears like a prominent front tooth. Cat Bells, on the other side of the lake, are fine objects, as well as other mountains which tower over the vale of Newlands. From a summit, called Castlerigg, one mile from Keswick on the Ambleside road, there is a most extensive view, comprising the lakes of Derwentwater and Bassenthwaite, the fertile vale through which the Derwent winds on its passage from the one lake to the other, and the heights of Skiddaw. Gray declares that, on leaving Keswick, when he turned round at this place to contemplate the scenery behind him, he was so charmed" that he had almost a mind to go back again." A walk over Latrigg," Skiddaw's Cub," will furnish the stranger with innumerable delightful prospects; and, in fact, it is impossible to stir in the neighbourhood of Keswick, without having scenery of the finest description before the eye. One mile and a-half from Keswick, on an eminence to the right of the old road to Penrith, is a small Druidical circle, measuring 100 feet by 108, consisting of forty - eight stones, some of which are 7 feet high.
Perhaps an excursion exhibiting more beautiful prospects of rock, wood, and water, than that round Derwentwater, does not exist in the vicinity of the Lakes. It is not more than 10 miles in length, if Grange Bridge be the limit of the ride in that direction; but if the excursion be extended to Bowder Stone, two miles must be added. Leaving Keswick by the Borrowdale Road, Castle Head, Wallow Crag, and Falcon Crag, are successively passed on the left. A hollow in the summit of Wallow Crag is visible from the road. There is a tradition current in the country, that, by means of this hollow, the Countess of Derwentwater effected her escape when the Earl was arrested for high treason, carrying with her a quantity of jewels and other valuables. It has ever since borne the name of the Lady's Rake. Barrow House stands two miles from Keswick, on the left of the road. Behind the house there is a fine cascade 124 feet in height, which may be seen on application at the lodge. A mountain road strikes off at this point to the village of Watendlath, two miles from the deflection. The road, after passing the village, near which there is a tarn, re-enters the Borrowdale road a little beyond Bowder Stone. In making the ascent to the village, splendid views of the lake and Skiddaw are obtained. One mile beyond Barrow, the road having passed under Thrang Crag, is the little inn of Lowdore, behind which is the celebrated Lowdore Waterfall. The grandeur of the rocks around the stream render the scene impressive, whatever may be the state of the weather, but the cascade is dependent in a great measure for its effect on the quantity of water. After heavy rains, the noise of the fall may be heard as far down the lake as Friar Crag. Gowder Crag rises on the left, Shepherd's Crag on the right, of the waterfall. One mile further, Grange Bridge, spanning Borrowdale Beck, is attained. Should the tourist desire to see the curious mask of rock called Bowder Stone, the road into Borrowdale must be continued for a mile further. This immense block, which has evidently rolled from the heights above, stands on a platform of ground, a short distance to the left of the road. A branch road has been made to the stone, which rejoins the Borrowdale road further on. It has been computed to weigh upwards of 1900 tons. Its summit may be gained by means of a ladder which has been affixed to it for the use of strangers.
" Upon a semicirque of turf-clad ground, A mass of rock, resembling, as it lay Right at the foot of that moist precipice, A stranded ship, with keel upturned, that rests Careless of winds and waves." 
 Wordsworth.
Close to Bowder Stone, but on the opposite side of the river, from the bank of which it suddenly rises, is an elevation clothed with wood called Castle Crag, so termed from a Roman fortification having once occupied the summit, the faint traces traces of which still remain. Some of the relics found here are shown in one of the museums at Keswick. Returning to and crossing Grange Bridge, the village of Grange is passed, and, one mile beyond, are a few houses called Manesty, near which is a small medicinal spring. Passing under the summit styled Cat Bells, the road enters the pretty village of Portinscale, 4 ¾ miles from Grange Bridge, near which are many elegant villas. Keswick is but a mile and a quarter beyond.
An agreeable excursion of thirteen miles and a half may be made from Keswick into the famed Valley Of St John. The Penrith road road must be pursued for four miles, to the village of Threlkeld. This road, lying almost the whole way on the banks of the Greta, passed under the mountain-masses of Skiddaw and Saddleback,( more poetically called Blencathara.) In a recess of the latter a mile beyond is Armathwaite Hall, the seat of Sir H. R. F. Vane, Bart. The Castle Inn, where refreshment may be taken, is ten miles from Keswick, which town the tourist reaches by a road eight miles in length, passing under Skiddaw. Bassenthwaite Church is seen on the right near the margin of the lake.
The last excursion from Keswick which we shall detail is that by way of Borrowdale to Buttermere, Crummock, and Lowes Water. The road has been already described as far as Bowder Stone, a little beyond which it joins the road from Watendlath. A mile below Bowder Stone is Rosthwaite, where there is a small inn. A short distance farther a road strikes off on the left through Stonethwaite to Langdale, passing over the ridge called the Stake. One mile from Rosthwaite the road into Wastdale, by the pass of Sty Head, continues up Borrowdale on the left. Near the deviation is Seatoller, the residence of Abraham Fisher, Esq., in the neighbourhood of which is the celebrated mine of plumbargo, or black lead, as it is usually called. It has been worked at intervals for upwards of two centuries, but, being now less productive, the ore has been excavated for several years consecutively. This is the only mine of the kind in England, and there are only one or two places in Scotland whre plumbargo has been discovered, but the lead obtained there is of an inferior quality. The best ore procured at the Borrowdale mine sells for L. 1, 10s. a pound. In the vicinity of the lead mine are four yew trees of extraordinary size.
At Seatoller the ascent of Buttermere Haws is commenced. This hill is steep and the road rough, private carriages, therefore, should not be taken over. It is eleven hundrd feet in height, and commands noble prospects of the receding valley of Borrowdale. Helvellyn may be descried over the Borrowdale Fells. The hill called Glaramara is on the left. With a little stretch of fancy the streams may be heard
" Murmuring in Glaramara's inmost caves."
On the right of the pass is the hill named Yewdale.
The road descends rapidly into the head of Buttermere dale; Honister Crag, presenting an almost perpendicular wall of rock, rising on the leftto the height of fifteen hundred feet. In the face of the rock, a considerable height about its base, large chambers have been cut, tier above tier, in which roofing-slates are excavated. The slates are shaped in the quarry, and brought down by men on wooden hurdles. These quarries belong to General Wyndham. Two miles below Honister Crag, and four from Seatoller, is a farm house near the head of Buttermere Lake, called Gatescarth, whence a mountain road crosses by the pass of Scarf Gap, into the head of Ennerdale, and reaches Wastdale Head by means of another pass called Black Sail. Hasness, the residence of General Benson, occupies a pretty situation on the left near the margin of the lake. A series of mountain summits tower over the opposite shore of the lake. The Hay Stacks, so termed from their form, are the most eastern; then follow High Crag, High Stile, and Red Pike. A stream issuing from a small tarn which lies between the two last, makes a fine cascade, bearing the name of Sour Milk Gill. The village of Buttermere stands on declining ground near the foot of the lake fourteen miles from Keswick. It consists of a few scattered farm-houses, with a good inn, forming, by reason of the surrounding hills, the very picture of seclusion. " The margin of the lake, which is overhung by some of the loftiest and steepest of the Cumbrian mountains, exhibits on either side few traces of human neighbourhood; the level area, where the hills recede enough to allow of any, is of a wild pastoral character or almost savage. The waters of the lake are deep and sullen, and the barrier mountains, by excluding the sun for much of his daily course, strengthen the gloomy impressions. At the foot of this lake lie a few unornamented fields, through which rolls a little brook connecting it with the larger lake of Crummock, and at the edge of this miniature domain, upon the road side, stands a cluster of cottages, so small and few that in the richer tracts of the island they would scarcely be complimented with the name of hamlet." A good road of nine miles, after climbing a Haws 800 feet high, conducts the visitor through the vale of Newlands to Keswick. A small chapel has been erected at the expense of the Rev. Vaughan Thomas, by the road side, upon the site of a still smaller one. The old chapel has been thus described:--" It is not only the very smallest chapel, by many degrees, in all England, but it is s mere a toy in outward appearance, that were it not for its antiquity, its wild mountain exposure, and its consecrated connexion with the final hopes and fears of the adjacent pastoral hamlet,-- but for these consideration the first movement of a stranger's feelings would be towards loud laughter; for the chapel looks not so much a miniature chapel in a drop scene from the Opera House, as a miniature copy from such a scene, and evidently could nt receive within its walls more than half a dozen households."
 De Quincey.
 Ibid.
A footpath leading through the fields, and across the little stream connecting the two lakes, conducts to Scale Force, one of the loftiest waterfalls in the vicinity of the lakes. The road, in damp weather especially, is none of the cleanest, and therefore a boat is frequently taken, which lands the visitor about half a-mile from the fall. A mountain path, leaving Scale Force on the left and climbing the fells above it, leads into Ennerdale. Floutern Tarn, which is passed on the way, serves as a land-mark.
Extending the excursion to Scale Hill, four miles from Buttermere, the road traverses the eastern shore of Crummock Water, passing under the hills Whiteless, Grasmoor, and Whiteside. Melbreak is a fine object on the other shore. From the foot of this mountain a narrow promontory juts into the lake, and the extremity of which, when the waters are swollen, becomes insulated. A short distance before Scale Hill is reached, there is a fine view into the sylvan valley of Lorton. At Scale Hill there is a comfortable inn, which for a few days might be made advantageously the tourist's residence. Boats may be had upon Crummock Lake, from whch the inn is about a mile distant. Scale Force might be visited if not seen previously. One boating excursion at least ought to be taken for the purpose of viewing the fine panorama of mountains which enclose the lake, and which can be nowhere seen to such advantage as from the bosom of the water. Green has pointed out one station for obtaining a fine view, not only of Crummock Lake, but of Buttermere also. It is from a point two or three hundred yards above the promontory under Melbreak; Honister Crag is seen closing the prospect on the north. The lake is three miles long by about three - quarters of a mile broad; its sounded depth is twenty - two fathoms. There are three small islands at the head, but they are too near the shore to add much to the other beauties of the scenery. The small lake called Lowes Water may also be visited. It is scarcely a mile long, and the scenery at its head is tame, but that round its foot is of a magnificent description.
From Scale Hill the tourist may proceed to the town of Cockermouth, the birth-place of the poet Wordsworth, which is seven miles distant-- visit Ennerdale Water by way of Lamplugh-- or return to Keswick by the vale of Lorton, a distance of twelve miles. This vale, watered by the Cocker, a stream which, issuing from Crummock Lake, joins the Derwent at Cockermouth, presents many charming views. Four miles from Scale Hill, the Keswick and Cockermouth road is entered, near the Yew Tree which Wordsworth has celebrated.
" There is a Yew Tree, pride of Lorton Vale, Which to this day stands single in the midst Of its own darkness, as in stood of yore, Not loth to furnish weapons for the bands Of Umfraville or Percy, ere they marched To Scotland's heaths; or those that crossed the sea, And drew their sounding bows at Agincour, Perhaps at earlier Cressy of Poictiers. Of vast circumference and gloom profound, This solitary Tree!-- a living thing Produced too slowly ever to decay; Of form and aspect too magnificent To be destroyed."
The road commences soon afterwards the long and steep of Whinlatter, from the summit of which the spectator has a noble combination of objects before him,-- comprehending Derwentwater, Bassenthwaite Water, Skiddaw, and Keswick Vale. The distance between Scale Hill and Keswick may be shortened by almost two miles, if the road under Whiteside and Grisedale Pike be taken. For the horseman and pedestrian the shorter route is to be preferred, as that part under the mountains forms a terrace, from which, views of Lorton Vale, or the neighbouring hills, and extending even to the Scotch mountains, may be obtained.
Whitehaven. 
[ Hotels:-- Globe; Black Lion; Golden Lion.]
Whitehaven is a market-town and sea-port, seated at the upper end of a small creek on the west coast in the county of Cumberland. It is situate in the parish of St Bees, and contains 18,916 inhabitants. This town has advanced rapidly from insignificance to its present state of prosperity, for in the year 1566 six fishermen's huts were all that bore the name of Whitehaven. This sudden progress in the scale of importance is to be attributed in a great measure to the munificence of the Lowther family, who, having large estates around the town, and valuable possesions in coal underneath it, have liberally come forward on all occasions, when opportunities have occurred, to promote its prosperity.
The chief manufactures are coarse linens, and articles connected with the fitting up of vessels. Ship Building is also carried on to a considerable extent. The port is the second in the country, there being upwards of 200 vessels belonging to it trading with the sea-ports of Great Britain, and with America, the West Indies, and the Baltic, as well as almost an equal number engaged in the coal trade; large quantities of iron and lead ore, grain, and lime are exported. The harbour is spacious and commodious, having seven piers extending into the sea in different directions, and affording ample ample security for vessels lying within. At the entrance of the harbour there are two light-houses, and a third is situate on the promontory of St Bees Head, three miles to the south-west. A machine, called the patent-slip, erected by Lord Lonsdale, into which vessels are drawn with ease and expedition when repairs are required, deserves a visit. The bay and harbour are defended by batteries, formerly consisting of upwards of a hundred guns, but lately suffered to fall into decay. These batteries received extensive additions after the alarm caused by the descent of the notorious Paul Jones in 1778. This desperado, who was a native of Galloway, and had served his apprenticeship in Whitehaven, landed here with thirty armed men, the crew of an American privateer which had been equipped at Nates for this expedition. The success of the enterprise was, however, frustrated by one of the company, through whom the inhabitants were placed on the alert. The only damage they succeeded in doing was the setting fire to three ships, only one of which was burnt. They were obliged to make a participate retreat, having first spiked the guns of the battery, so that they escaped unhurt to the coat of Scotland, where they plundered the house of the Earl of Selkirk. Since 1803 a life-boat has been stationed here,-- which has been the means of saving many lives.
The streets of the town have a neat appearance, being straight as well as wide, and intersecting each other at right angles. A rivulet called the Poe runs underneath the town to the harbour. There are four churches of the establishment besides several dissenting places of worship. The schools are numerous, educating more than 1700 children, nearly 500 of whom are taught at the National School. The Theatre in Roper Street has a handsome appearance' it was erected in 1769. The Workhouse is a large building in Scotch Street. The Harbour Office, in which the affairs of the harbour, docks, and customs are transacted, is a large structure on the West Strand. The Public Office, containing a police office, news-room,& c., stands in Lowther Street. The town now enjoys the privilege of returning a Member to Parliament.
The coal mines are the principal source of wealth at Whitehaven. They are, perhaps, the most extraordinary in the world, lying underneath the town, and extending a considerable distance under the bed of the sea. They are 320 yards in depth, and such vast quatities of coal have been excavated from them as to have given them the appearance of a subterranean city. At times of pressing demand, 1500 tons are frequently taken to the shore for exportation each day. The sea has not unfrequently burst into the mines, causing an immense destruction of life and property; the miners are also much annoyed with fire-damp and choke-damp. There are many short railways to convey the coal to the shore, and steam engines of great power are in continual operation for the purpose of carrying off the superfluous water. The mines have five principal entrances, called Bearmouths, three on the south side and two on the north, by all of which horses can descend.
Whitehaven is in direct communication with Liverpool, Belfast, Dublin, and Douglas in the Isle of Man, by the packets of the Steam Navigation Company. A packet sails several times a week to and from Liverpool; and as this mode of reaching Whitehaven is much more economical and expeditious than the inland one, many persons avail themselves of it for the purpose of arriving at the lake country. All information relative to the fares and times of sailing may be ascertained upon inquiry at the office of the Company, 36 King Street, or by reference to Bradshaw's Railway Guide. Railway Trains leave Whitehaven several times a-day for Workington, Cockermouth, and Maryport, in connection with Maryport and Carlisle Railway, and for St Bees and Ravenglass by the Furness Junction Railway.
The residences in the neighbourhood of Whitehaven are Whitehaven Castle( Earl of Lonsdale), on the south-east of the town; Hensingham House( H. Jefferson, Esq.), one mile south; Summer Grove( J. Spedding), two miles south; Keekle Grove( Mrs Perry), three miles south; Linethwaite( G. Harrison, Esq.), three miles south; Moresby Hall( Miss Tate), two miles north, built after a design of Inigo Jones; Roseneath( Mrs Solomon); Rose Hill( G. W. Hartley, Esq.).
Excursions may be made from Whitehaven to St Bees, to Ennerdale Lake, and to Wast Water.
St Bees. 
The village which gives its name to the parish of St Bees, in which Whitehaven is situated, lies in a narrow valley near the shore, four miles to the south of Whitehaven. Its appellation is said to derive from St Begs, an Irish virgin and saint, who lived here, and founded a monastery about the year 650. The church, which was erected ome time after her death, was dedicated to her, and is still in a state of excellent preservation. The tower is the only part of the Saxon edifice remaining, the rest being in the florif Gothic style. It is built of red freestone, in a cruciform shape, and possesses some fine carvings, particularly at the east end, which is lighted by three lancet-shaped windows. The nave is used as the parish church, and the cross aisle as a place of burial. Until 1810 the chancel was unroofed, but in that year it was repaired, and is now occupied as the divinity school" for the reception of young men intended for the church, but not designed to finish their studies at Oxford or Cambridge."--" The old Convental Church," says Wordsworth, in the preface of his poem of' St Bees,'" is well worthy of being visited by any strangers who might be led to the neighbourhood of this celebrated spot."
The Grammar School, founded by Archbishop Grindal, stands near the church.
Ennderdale Lake is less visited than most of the other lakes, in consequence of its difficulty of access, and the want of houses of entertainment in the valley. It lies nine miles to the east of Whitehaven, from which town it is more easily reached than from any other. Its length is not more than two miles and a half, and its extreme width is about three - quarters of a mile. The stream which enters at its head is called the Liza, but the river issuing from the lake takes the name of Ehen. This stream is crossed for the first time by those approaching the lake five miles from Whitehaven, and a second time three miles further up, at the village of Ennerdale Bridge, at which is the chapel, and near it two small inns; the foot of the lake is one mile beyond. The first mile and a half of Ennerdale Water is the most picturesque part, and, therefore carriages need not proceed further along the road than this distance, as there is no outlet for them at the upper end of the valley. The pedestrian or horseman will do well to traverse the whole length of the vale, as the mountains round its upper end are thrown into magnificent groups. Long before reaching the head of the lake the scenery becomes wild and desolate. A mile and a half beyond the extremity is the farm house of Gillerthwaite, the last habitation in the vale. Here the road for vehicles ends. A shepherd's path passes along the banks of the Lisa, and two miles and a half before Gillerthwaite the extremity of Ennerdale is reached. Great Gable( 2935 feet) is a fine object at the head; and the Pillar( 2893 feet) has a striking appearance on the right. Great Gable is so called from its resembling the gable-end of a house. On the summit there was wont to be a small hollow in the rock never entirely empty of water,--" having," says Wordsworth," no other feeder than the dews of heaven, the showers, the vapours, the hoar frost, and the spotless snow." This rock is now destroyed. The peculiar shape of the Pillar will not fail to strike the eye for some distance.
A sheep cote at the termination of the valley will be noticed. At this point a path strikes up the hill on the left, called Scarf Gap, and reaches Gatesgarth in Buttermere, by a road three miles in length. Another path passes over Black Sail on the right, and winding round Kirkfell into Mosedale, having Yewbarrow on the right, reaches Wastdale Head, three miles from the sheep cote. Wastdale head will be mentioned again in the description of our next excursion.
Wast Water 
May be visited either by the Furness Junction Railway from Drigg or Seascale Station, the former of which is 14 ½ and the latter 12 ½ miles from Whitehaven, or by the road which passes through the town of Egremont. Following the road two miles and a half beyond Egremont, on the right, is the village of Beckermet. A house near this village, the residence of Joseph Hartley, Esq., bears the name of Wotobank, from the hill near which it stands. The derivation of this name is assigned by tradition to the following incident: A Lord of Beckermet, with his lady and servants, were on day hunting wolves. During the chase the lady was discovered to be missing. After a long and painful search, her body was found on this hill or bank slain by a wolf, which was discovered in the very act of tearing it to pieces. In the first transports of his grief the husband exclaimed" Woe to this bank!"
" Woe to thee, bank! the attendants echoed round, And pitying shepherds caught the grief-fraught sound: Thus, to this hour, through every changing age, Through every year's still ever-varying stage, The name remains, and Wotobank is seen From every mountain bleak and valley green" 
 Mrs Cowley's
 Edwina.
The road crosses Calder Bridge four miles from Egremont. There are two good inns in the village. Close at hand is Ponsonby Hall, the residence of E. Stanley, Esq. in a beautiful park. One mile above the village, on the north bank of the stream, are the picturesque remains of Calder Abbey, founded by Ranulph de Meschiens in 1134, for a colony of Cistertians who were detached from Furness Abbey. It subsequently received many valuable grants. At the dissolution it shared the common fate of of the Romish, ecclesiastical establishments.
In the church-yard at Gosforth, six miles from Egremont, there is an ancient stone pillar, which, until lately, was surmounted by a cross. The pretty village of Strands is four miles beyond Gosforth. It was two decent inns, at which boats on the lake my be procured. The ascent of Scawfell Pikes may be conveniently made from the place, by taking a boat to the head of the lake and landing at the foot of the mountain. Wast Water, one mile from Strands, is three and a half miles in length, and about half a mile broad. The deepest part yet discovered is forty - five fathoms. It has never been known to be iced over even in the severest winter. The mountains round this lake rise to a great altitude. The Screes hang over the south-east margin, and form an extraordinary feature in the landscape. Seatallan guards the opposite shore. The road traverses the north-western shore, and, six miles from Strands, arrives at the village of Waterdale Head, which consists merely of a few scattered homesteads and a little chapel. It would be a great accommodation to tourists if there were an inn at this place. Refreshment can, however, be obtained at one of the farm-houses, for which, of course, some remuneration will be given. The panorama of mountains surrounding this level area is strikingly grand. Standing at the head of the lake, the spectator will have Yewbarrow, like the slanting roof of a house, on his left, further up, Kirkfell, and immediately before him Great Gable,-- a little on the right of which is Lingmell, a protrusion from Scawfell-- the Pikes,( the highest land in England,) and Scawfell then follow. Between Yewbarrow and Kirkfell there is the path over Black Sail into Ennerdale, before noticed. A foot road, passing round the head of the lake, and climbing the high ground between the Screes and Scawfell, descends by way of Burnmoor Tarn into Eskdale. Tourists on foot or horseback may proceed to Keswick, fourteen miles distant, by the pass of Sty Head-- the highest in the lake district. The Borrowdale road is entered on the right. The summit, 1300 feet high, commands, as may be imagined, a most extensive view. The ascent is remarkably steep; and if horses are taken over, great caution should be used. The notorious Baron Trenck once dashed down on horseback, leaving his astonished guide behind carefully picking his way. The fearless horseman arrived safe at the bottom, and performed in one day a journey of fifty - six miles, through steep and difficult roads, which nearly killed his horse.
 A description of the Pikes, and their ascent, is given on a subsequent page.
Penrith. 
[ Hotels:-- Crown; George.]
Penrith is an ancient market-town, seated at the goot of an eminence near the southern verge of the county of Cumberland. It contains 6668 inhabitants, and the appearance of the town is clean and neat. It lies in the neighbourhood of three rivers, the Lowther, Eamont, and Petterill, within the district called Inglewood Forest. The existence of Penrith may be traced back for many centuries. An army of 80,000 Scots laid it to waste in the nineteenth year of Edward Iii., carrying away many of the inhabitants prisoners, and in the reign of Richard Iii. the town was again sacked. The manufactures are very trifling, consisting principally of linen goods and some woollen fabrics.
The ruins of the Castle, supposed to have been erected by the Nevilles, overlook the town from the west, and give it a noble appearance. It was for some time the residence of the Duke of Gloucester, afterwards Richard Iii., and continued in the possession of the Crown till the Revolution, when it was granted, together with the honour of Penrith, to Walter Bentinck, Earl of Portland. In the contest between Charles I. and the Long Parliament, this castle was seized and dismantled by the adherents of the Commonwealth, and the lead, timber, and other materials were sold. In 1783, the late Duke of Portland sold it, together with the honour of Penrith, including Inglewood Forest, to the Duke of Devonshire. Among the ruins is a subterraneous passage, which leads to a house in Penrith, called Dockray Hall, about three hundred yards distant.
The Church is a plain structure; it was partly rebuilt in 1722, and is dedicated to St Andrew. It was given by Henry I. to the Bishop of Carlisle, who is still the patron of the cure.
On one of the walls it the following record of the ravages of pestilence toward the end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth:--" A.D. M. D. Xcviii. ex gravi peste, quae regionibus hisce incubuit, obierunt apud Penrith 2260, Kendal 2500, Richmond 2200, Carlisle 1196."
Posteri, Averite vos et vivite."
This memorial on brass has been substituted in the place of a more ancient inscription engraven on stone. It appears from an ancient register kept in the parish that this dreadful pestilence raged here from September 22, 1597, to January 5, 1599, a period of fifteen months!
In the church-yard is a singular monument of antiquity, called the Giant's Grave, the origin of which is involved in obscurity. It consists of two stone pillars, standing at the opposite ends of a grave fifteen feet asunder, and tapering from a circumference of eleven feet six inches at the base to seven feet at the top. Between these are four other stones; the whole are covered with Runic or other unintelligible carvings. Near them is another stone called the Giant's thumb. These remains are said to have once formed a monument erected to the memory of Owen Coesarius, a giant.
On the heights to the north of Penrith is a square stone building, called the Beacon, well placed for giving alarm in the time of danger. From this elevation the views are at once extensive and delightfully picturesque; Helvellyn, Ulleswater, Skiddaw and Saddleback, with their attendant mountains; Crossfell( 2900 feet high), and the eastern chain of hills stretching from Stanemoor in Yorkshire, through Westmorland and Cumberland into Scotland, being within the boundary of the prospect.
The antiquities in the neighbourhood of Penrith are numerous.
The remains of Brougham Castle, which are supposed to occupy the site of the Roman station Brovoniacum, occupy a striking situation near the junction of the rivers Eamont and Lowther, one mile and three - quarters from Penrith, a little to the right of the Appleby Road. The vallum of an encapment is still to be traced, and altars, coins, and other antiquities have often been found at the place.
A short distance beyond Brougham Castle stands the Countess's Pillar, erected in 1656, by Lady Anne Clifford.
Two miles from Brougham Castle, on the precipitous banks of the Eamont, are two excavations in the rocks, called Giant's Caves, or Isis Parlis. One is very large, and contains marks of having been inhabited. There are traces of a door and window: and a strong column has marks of iron grating upon it. The approach to these singular remains is difficult. They are said to have been the abode of a giant called Isis.
A short distance on the Westmorland side of Eamont Bridge, in a field on the right side of the road, about a mile and a half from Penrith, is another curious relic of antiquity, King Arthur's Round Table, a circular area above twenty yards in diameter, surrounded by a fosse and mound; with two approaches opposite each other conducting to the area. As the fosse is on the inner side, it could not be intended for the purpose of defence, and it has reasonably been conjectured that the enclosure was designed for the exercise of the feats of chivalry, and the embankment around for the convenience of the spectators. High up the River Eamont is Mayborough, an area of nearly 100 yards in diameter, surrounded by a mound, composed of pebble stones elevated several feet. In the centre of the area is a large block of unhewn stone eleven feet high, supposed to have been a place of Druidical Judicature. Six miles north-east of Penrith, on the summit of an eminence near Little Salkeld, are the finest relics of antiquity in this vicinity, called Long Meg and her daughters. They consist of a circle, 350 yards in circumference, formed of sixty - seven stones, some of them ten feet high. Seventeen paces from the southern side of the circle stands Long Meg,-- a square unhewn column of red freestone, fifteen feet in circumference, and eighteen feet high.
" He passed red Penrith's Table Round, For feats of chivalry renowned: Left Mayborough's mound, and stones of power By Druids raised in magic hour, And traced the Eamont's winding way, Till Ulfo's lake beneath him lay." 
 Bridal of Triermain.
In a note to his sonnet on this monument, the poet Wordsworth observes,--" When I first saw this monument, as I came upon it by surprise, I might overrate its importance as an object; but though it will not bear a comparison with Stonehenge, I must say I have not seen any other relic of those dark ages which can pretend to rival it in singularity and dignity of appearance."
At Old Penrith, five miles north-west of Penrith, are the remains of the Roman station Brementenracum. A military road, twenty - one feet broad, led from it to the Roman wall.
The seats of the nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood of Penrith are very numerous. The more important are-- Carleton Hall,( John Cowper, Esq.,) one mile south-east. Brougham Hall( Lord Brougham), one and a-half miles south-east. Skirgill House( L. Dent, Esq.), one mile south-west. Dalemain( E. W. Hasell, Esq.) three and a-half miles south-west. Lowther Castle,( the Earl of Lonsdale,) four miles south. Greystock Castle,( Henry Howard, Esq.,) four and a-half miles west north-west. Eden Hill,( Sir George Musgrave, Bart.,) four miles east. Hutton Hall( Sir H. R. F. Vane, Bart.), five miles north-west by north. Some of these, however, deserve more particular mention.
Brougham Hall, an old and picturesque building, is the seat of Henry, Lord Brougham and Vaux. It will be visited with interest, as the patrimonial inheritance and occasional residence of unquestionably the first orator of the age. It stands upon an eminence not far from the ruins of Brougham Castle, commanding extensive views of the surrounding country, the mountains beyond Ulleswater closing the prospect. From its situation and beautiful prospects, it has been termed" the Windsor of the North." Having at one time belonged to a family named Bird, it was from this circumstance sometimes called Bird's Nest. The pleasure-grounds and shrubberies are of considerable extent and tastefully laid out. In one part is the Hermit's Cell,-- a small thatched building containing furniture fitted for, and emblematic of, a recluse. Upon the table in the centre these lines are painted:-- 
" And may at last my weary age Find out the peaceful hermitage, The hairy gown and mossy cell, Where I may sit and rightly spell, Of every star that Heaven doth shew, And every herb that sips the dew,-- Till old experience do attain To something like prophetic strain."
The family of Brougham( or Burgham, as it was formerly spelt,) is ancient and respectable. The manor, which bears the same name after having been long alienated, was re-acquired, and still belongs to the Broughams.
Eden Hall, the seat of the famous Border clan of the Musgraves, is a large and handsome edifice on the west bank of the River Eden, which, being bordered with trees, forms an elegant feature in the pleasure grounds. In the hall there is preserved with scrupulous care an old and anciently painted glass goblet called the Luck of Edenhall, which would appear, from the following traditionary legend, to be wedded to the fortunes of its present possessors. The butler, in going to procure water at a well in the neighbourhood,( rather an unusual employment for a butler,) came suddenly upon a company of fairies, who were feasting and making merry on the green sward. In their flight they left behind this glass, and one of them returning for it, found it in the hands of the butler. Seeing that its recovery was hopeless, she flew away, singing aloud-- 
" If that glass should break or fall, Farewell the luck of Eden Hall."
The Musgraves came to England with the Conqueror, and settled first at Musgrave in Westmorland, then at Hartley Castle in the same county, and finally at their present residence.
Lowther Castle, the seat of the Earl of Lonsdale, is seated in a noble park of 600 acres, on the east side of the woody vale of Lowther. It was erected by the late Earl upon the site of the old hall, which had been nearly destroyed by fire, as far back as the year 1726, after the designs of the architect Smirke. The white stone of which it is built, is in pleasing contrast with the vivid green of the park and woods. The effect of the whole pike is strikingly grand, worthy the residence its wealthy and powerful owner. The north front, in the castellated style of the thirteen or fourteenth century, is 420 feet in length. The south front is in the Gothic Cathedral style, and has the usual number of pinnacles, pointed windows,& c. So far from the diversity of the fronts being discordant, the art of the designer has made them increase each other's effect. Surmounting the whole is a lofty tower, from the summit of which the prospect is extremely fine-- the mountains of Helvellyn, Seat Sandal, Saddleback, and Skiddaw, their sides probably shadowed
" By the white mist that dwells upon the hills,"
are distinctly visible. The fitting up of the interior is in a style of grandeur corresponding with the external appearance. Heart of oak and birch occupy, in a great measure, the place of foreign woods in the furniture and carvings. The staircase which climbs the great central tower is highly imposing. Many masterpieces of the old painters hang upon the walls, and the corridors and rooms are adorned with busts from the chisels of Chantrey, Westmacott, and other sculptors. Amongst these, the bust of Queen Victoria, taken when she was about three or four years of age, will be viewed with more than ordinary interest. There is also a facsimile of the famous Wellington shield, carved in solid silver, after the designs of the late Stothard, R.A. The different compartments exhibit in a regular series, the victories which his Grace has obtained over the foes of Britain in India and the Peninsula, but as the shield was executed before the battle of Waterloo, that crowning victory is unfortunately omitted.
The capabilities of the situation which the park afforded had been publicly noticed by Lord Macartney, who, in describing a romantic scene in the imperial park at Gehol in China, observed, that" it reminded him of Lowther in Westmorland, which, from the extent of the prospect, the grand surrounding objects, the noble situation, the diversities of surface, the extensive woods and command of water, might be rendered by a man of sense, spirit, and taste, the finest scene in the British dominions." How far his Lordship's views have been realized the visitor will judge. The park has been much admired for the profusion of fine forest trees which embellish its banks and braes. It is watered by the Lowther, the pellucid clearness of which fully justify its supposed etymological derivation. The grey and tree-crowned crags, the transparent stream, and the graceful windings of its course, add greatly to the charms of its scenery. One portion bears the name of the Elysian fields. Near the Castle there is a large grassy terrace shaded by fine trees, from which the prospect is most charming.
The Lowther family is of great antiquity, the names of William de Lowther and Thomas de Lowther, being subscribed as witnesses to a grant of lands in the reign of Henry Ii. Sir John Lowther, first Viscount Lonsdale, distinguished himself by influencing the counties of Westmorland and Cumberland in favour of King William, at the memorable era of 1688; in return for which service, that king created him a Viscount, and conferred upon him many other honours. Sir James Lowther, first Earl of Lonsdale, succeeded to the three great inheritances of Mauds Meaburn, Lowther, and Whitehaven, which came to him by different branches of the family. When a commoner, he was thirty years M.P. for Westmorland or Cumberland, and in 1761 was returned for both centuries. He was also Lord Lieutenant of the two counties, an alderman of Carlisle, and succeeded to the two millions left by his kinsman, Sir James Lowther of Whitehaven, 1755. Of his immense wealth, the distribution of which by will was said to give universal satisfaction," a small portion in gold," L .50, 000, was found in his houses.
Upon the death of the first Earl, the title of Viscount descended to his cousin, Sir William Lowther of Swillington, Bart., who, in 1807, was created an Earl. At his death, in 1842, he was succeeded in the possession of the title and estates by his eldest son, the present Earl.
Tourists whilst at Penrith will not fail to visit the romantic lake of
Ulleswater, 
and those who can bear the fatigue of lengthened excursions will be gratified by a ride to Hawes Water.
The former lake is generally viewed by tourists when travelling between Ambleside and Penrith, as the road between the two places passes along its northern shore. As, however, it is a general rule that lake scenery, in order to be seen to advantage, should be visited in a direction opposite to that in which the waters flow, it would be better to invert this order of approach. Two roads conduct from Penrith to Pooley Bridge, at the foot of the lake about six miles distant, both of which lead through a country abounding in picturesque scenery. One leaves the Keswick road two miles and a-half from Penrith, and, passing through Mr Hasell's park at Dalemain, reaches Ulleswater, three - quarters of a mile above Pooley Bridge. The other road leads along the Shap road to Eamont Bridge, shortly before reaching which, Carleton Hall is seen on the left. After crossing the bridge, by which Westmorland is entered, the first road on the right must be taken. In the angle of the field on the left at this deviation, is King Arthur's Round Table, and a little beyond on the right is Mayborough, both of which antique remaisn have been previously noticed. At Yanwath, two and a-half miles from Penrith, there are the ruins of an ancient Hall, formerly one of the" noble houses" of Sir Lancelot Threlkeld. The road, passing through Tirrel and Barton, ultimately arrives at Pooley Bridge, six miles from Penrith - The Eamont is crossed by a stone bridge upon issuing from Ulleswater. There are two small inns, at which boats upon the lake may be procured. On the west of the village is a steep and conical hill, clothed with wood, called Dunmallet, upon which there were formerly the vestiges of a Roman fortification. Winding walks lead to the summit, from which a fine view of the lake is commanded. About half a mile from Pooley, on the east side of the lake, is a villa named Eusemere, which for some time was the residence of the late William Wilberforce. From Pooley Bridge to Patterdale, a distance of ten miles the road traverses the west margin of Ulleswater. The lake itself is nine miles in length, and is partitioned by the mountains into three separate chambers, or reaches, as they are locally termed, no two of which can be seen at once from any point near the margin. Its extreme width is about three - quarters of a mile. The first reach, commencing at the foot, is terminated on the left by Hallin Fell, which stretches forward to a promontory, from the opposite side called Skelley Neb, upon whihc stands Mr Marshall's house, Halsteads. The middle and longest reach is closed in by Birk Fell on the left, and on the right by Stybarrow Crag, far away above which" the dark brow of the mighty Helvellyn" rises into thin air. The little island, called House Holm, spots the water exactly at the termination of this section of the lake. The highest reach is the smallest and narrowest, but the mingled grandeur and beauty which surround it, are beyond the power of the liveliest imagination to depict. Four or five islands dimple the surface, and by their diminutive size impress more deeply upon the beholder the vastness of the hills which tower above them; Stybarrow Crag, and other offshoots from Helvellyn on one side, Birk Fell and Place Fell on the other, springing from the lake's margin almost at one bound, shut in this terrestrial paradise.
" Abrupt and sheer the mountains sink At once the level brink."
Leaving Pooley Bridge by the high road, Waterfoot is passed on the right about a mile from the bridge, and Rampsbeck Lodge, on the left, about two miles from the same place. A little further is the village of Watermillock. So far the lake has lain amongst somewhat tame scenery, but here promise is given of its coming grandeur. Halsteads, the seat of Wm. Marshall, Esq., is seen on the left,-- the grounds circling which are beautifully laid out. The wood at the foot of Hallin Fell, on the other shore, has a pleasing effect. A mile from Halsteads, Gowbarrow Park is entered. This park, which contains upwards of a thousand acres, must attract the attention of the most careless observer, by its" grace of forest chasms decayed," and innumerable sylvan groups of great beauty still remain, round which herds of deer will be seen bounding. It belongs to Henry Howard, Esq. of Greystoke Castle, to whom it was devised by Charles, 11th Duke of Norfolk, his uncle. The Duke's predecessor erected upon an eminence in the park a hunting-box in the castellated style, which is called Lyulph's Tower; it commands a splendid view of the lake. About five and a-half miles from Pooley Bridge, a stream is crossed by a small bridge, a mile above which, in a rocky dell, is a waterfall of considerable volume, called Airey Force. The banks of the stream, which are thickly sown with trees, become exceedingly precipitous as the cascade is approached. Two wooden bridges are thrown across the stream, one above, the other below, the fall. Glencoin Beck, issuing from Linking Dale Head, runs under the road a mile beyond Airey bridge, and forms the line of demarcation between Cumberland and Westmorland. The highest reach of lake is now unfolded to the view. The road soon afterwards passes under Stybarrow Crag, at which point it has been much widened,-- formerly it was a narrow path between the steep mountain and the water's edge. An ancestor of the Mounseys of Goldrill Cottage acquired the title of King of Patterdale, from having successfully repulsed a body of Scotch moss-troopers at the place, with the aid of a few villages. His residence was at that time Patterdale hall, but a few years ago the patrimonial estate was sold to Mr Marshall of Leeds. The brook from Glenridding is then crossed. Helvellyn may be ascended from this valley for which purpose a guide should be obtained at Patterdale. The path to the summit lies for a considerable distance by the side of Glenridding Beck. On the left is Glenridding House, Rev. Mr Askew; Patterdale Hall is passed on the right, and the village of Patterdale is soon afterwards reached. The Churchyard, in which lie interred the remains of the unfortunate Charles Gough, contains a yew-tree of remarkable size. At the Inn, where there is excellent accommodation, guides may be had to any of the mountains in the vicinity, and boats procured for excursions upon the lake. A few days might be pleasantly spent at this place, in investigating the hidden beauties of the neighbourhood. There are innumerable nooks and shy recesses in the fells by the lake,
" Where flowerets blow, and whispering Naiads dwell."
 Hartley Coleridge.
which the leisurely wanderer has only to see in order to admire. An afternoon might be advantageously employed in visiting the islands, of which there are four: House Holm, standing at the mouth of the highest reach, Moss Holm, Middle Holm, and Cherry Holm. Place Fell Quarry, half a mile from the inn, is a good station for viewing the lake; and the walk to Blowick, two farm-houses under Place Fell, affords many charming prospects. A ramble of five or six miles may be taken into the retired valley of Martindale; nor would the hardy pedestrian have much difficulty in making his way over the Fells to Hawes Water. The summits of Helvellyn and High Street might be visited; both of which will repay the visitor for the toil he must necessarily incur, by the extensive views they command. The latter stands at the head of Kentmere:-- its name, a strange one for a mountain, it acquired from the road which the Romans constructed over it. The traces of this road are yet visible. Its height is 2700 feet.
Ambleside is ten miles from Patterdale, the road leading over the steep pass of Kirkstone. A small inn, bearing the sign of" The Traveller's Rest," has lately been erected on the highest part of the pass, breaking in, with its mean associations, upon the solemn feelings which the surrounding solitude is calculated to inspire. In descending, Windermere and the valley of Ambleside are spread out like a map before the spectator.
Hawes Water,

three miles long by half a mile broad, lies embosomed in lofty mountains, thirteen and a half miles north of Penrith. It is the property of the Earl of Lonsdale. The road best adapted for carriages is that by way of Shap; but the nearest and most picturesque road is that by way of Yanwath, Askham, Helton, and Bampton. The latter road quits the Penrith and Pooley Bridge road at Yanwath; after leaving that village, it crosses what was formerly Tirrel and Yanwath Moor, to Askham, five miles from Penrith. Helton is rather more than a mile beyond, and Bampton is nearly four miles further. The grammar school at this village has been long in great repute. Shap, a straggling village on the mail road between Kendal and Penrith, is five miles distant. The road passes near the ruins of Shap Abbey, lying on the banks of the Lowther, now bare, but once occupied by a thick forest. This abbey, anciently called Heppe, was founded by Thomas, the son of Gospatrick, for monks of the Premonstratensian order, about the year 1150. It was dedicated to St Magdalen. Upon the dissolution, the abbey and manor were granted to Thomas Lord Wharton, from whose descendant, the Duke of Wharton, an ancestor of the Earl of Lonsdale, purchased them. The only part left standing is the church tower. From the vestiges of buildings yet visible, the abbey appears to have been extensive. In the vicinity of Shap are two of those rude structures to which no certain date can be assigned, and which are therefore usually referred to the primitive times of the Druids. Karl Lofts, the name of one, consists of two parallel lines of unhewn masses of granite, half a mile long by sixty or seventy feet broad, terminating at the south extremity in a small circle of similar blocks. Many of the granitic blocks have been barbarously carried off for building purposes, or some other" base use." At a place called Gunnerskeld Bottom there is a circle of large stones, thought to be a sepulchral cairn.
Returning to Bampton, the foot of Hawes Water is reached, a mile and half beyond that village. The wild wood of Naddle Forest beautifully feathers the steeps of the east shore. Rather more than a mile from the foot of the lake, Fordendale brook is crossed near a few houses, called Measand Becks. The brook makes some pretty falls on the mountain side. A broad promontory enters the lake at this place, and approaches within 200 or 300 yards of the other margin. The mountains surrounding the head of this lake present a magnificent contour. They consist of High Street and Kidsty Pike, with their nameless dependencies. The little chapel of Mardale stands close to the road about a mile above the lake, and over against it is a neat white house, called Chapel Hill, the residence of a yeoman named Holme. The ancestor of this family came originally from Stockholm, and landed in England in the train of the Conqueror. He was rewarded with an estate in the Northamptonshire, where the family were seated until the reign of King John, at which period, its head, flying from his enemies, flying from his enemies, concealed himself in a cavity( to this day called Hugh's cave) in one of the hill sides. The estate on which his descendent resides was purchased by the fugitive. Having wound round a rocky screen, a few houses, called collectively Mardale Green,( amongst which there is a small inn,) are seen thinly sown over the floor of the narrow valley. Harter Fell closes in this level area on the south-- lofty mountains rise on the east and west, and contribute to make this as perfect a solitude as can well be conceived. The pedestrian will find a road over the pass of Gatescarth, which reaches Kendal by the vale of Longsleddale, fifteen miles from Mardale Green. From Mardale the rambler might ascend High Street, or cross the Martindale Fells to Patterdale, at the head of Ulleswater.
Mountains. 
The mountains best known and most usually ascended by tourists are-- Scawfell, Helvellyn, Skiddaw, Coniston Old Man, and Langdale Pikes. Guides can be procured at any of the neighbouring inns; who, for a moderate compensation, will conduct strangers to the summit by the least circuitous path; and being generally intelligent persons, will point out and name those objects most worthy of notice, which are visible on the ascent or from the highest point. Fine clear days should be selected for an expedition of this kind, as well for the advantage of having an extensive prospect, as far safety. Mists and wreathes of vapour, capping the summits of mountains, or creeping along their sides, are beautiful objects when viewed from the lowly valley; but when the wanderer becomes surrounded with them on the hills, they occasion anything but agreeable sensations, and have no unfrequently led to serious accidents. A pocket compass will be found useful in discovering the tourist's position with reference to the surrounding scenery, and a telescope in bringing within view the more distant parts of it. A flask containing brandy, which may be diluted at the springs on the way, will be found no unnecessary burden. With these preliminary observations, we shall proceed to describe the mountains we have named above.
Scawfell. 
The aggregation of mountains called collectively Scawfell, which stand at the head of Wastdale, form four several summits bearing separate names. The most southerly of the four is Scawfell,( 3100) feet; the next is Scawfell Pikes,( 3160 feet); Lingmell, of considerably inferior elevation, is more to the west, forming a sort of buttress for the support of loftier heights; and Great End is the advanced guard on the north, having its aspect towards Borrowdale. the whole mass is composed of a species of hard dark slate. The Pikes, being the highest summit in England, is most commonly the object of the stranger's ambition; some confusion has, however, been caused by the similarity of names, and the lower elevation of Scawfell been attained, where that of Scawfell Pikes was desired. Since the trigonometrical survey, a pile of stones, surmounted by a staff, has been placed on the latter mountain summit; such mistakes, therefore, need not, except through carelessness, occur in future.
The ascent of the two higher mountains may be commenced from several valleys,-- from Langdale, Borrowdale, or Wastdale. Of these, the station from which the ascent may be most readily be made is Strands, at the foot of Wast Water. A boat being taken up the lake, will land the pedestrian at the foot of Lingmell, which projects towards the water. The top of Lingmell being almost gained, a turn must be made to the right, and that direction persevered in for three - quarters of a mile. Deflections to the right and left in succession will place the hardy climber upon Scawfell Pikes. From Borrowdale the best course is to pursue the Wastdale road, until Sty Head Tarn is reached. Leaving this tarn on the left, and bending you way towards Sprinkling Tarn, which must also be kept on the left, a turn to the right must shortly be made conducting to a pass called East Haws, having on the left, Hanging Knott, and on the right Wastdale Broad Crag. The summit of Scawfell Pikes is in view from this place, but much exertion will be required before either will be reached. Great End will have to be ascended, and continuing along the summit-ridge, some rocky eminences will be passed on the left. A considerable descent must then be made, and two small hollows crossed, from the second of which the trigonometrical station on the Pikes will be reached. The two elevations of Scawfell and Scawfell Pikes, though not more than three - quarters of a mile distant from each other in a direct line, are separated by a fearful chasm, called Mickle Dore, which compels a circuit to be made of two miles in passing from one to the other. The passage by Mickle Dore, though dangerous, is not impassable, as some of the adventurous dalesman can testify. All vegetation but that of lichens has forsaken the summits of Scawfell Pikes and its rival;" Cushions or tufts of moss parched and brown," says Wordsworth with his usual poetical feeling," appear between the huge blocks and stones that lie on heaps on all sides to a great distance, like skeletons or bones of the earth not needed at the creation, and there left to be covered with never-dying liches, which the clouds and dews nourish and adorn with colours of exquisite beauty. Flowers, the most brilliant feathers, and even gems, scarcely surpass in colouring some of those masses of stone."
The view from the Pikes is, of course, of a most extensive description, embracing such a" tumultuous waste of huge hill tops" that the mind and eye alike become confused in the endeavour to distinguish the various objects. The mountains having lost the shapes they possessed when viewed from beaneath, are only to be recognized by those acquainted with the locality of each; however, with the aid of his compass, map, and our directions, the enquiring gazer will be able to assign its name to most of them. Turning to the south, Morecambe Bay and the Lancashire coast to a great extent are seen, and on clear days the prospect comprehends a portion of the Welsh Highlands. Scawfell intercepts the view of Wast Water and part of the Screes. To the left Eskdale and Miterdale are seen contributing their waters to the ocean. Furness and the Isle of Walney are visible in the same direction, as well as Devoke Water, placed on an elevated moor, beyond which Black Combe is a prominent object. Still more to the east Wyrnose, Wetherlam, Coniston Old Man, with the rest of the mountains at the head of Eskdale, Seathwaite, and Little Langdale are conspicuous. Bowfell, obscuring Langdale, appears in the east, and beyond, part of the middle of Windermere. Far away, beyond, are the Yorkshire hills with Ingleborough, the monarch of them all, plainly visible. To the left of Bowfell, Langdale Pikes are descried, and in the east the eye rests upon Hill vell, High Street, Wansfell, Fairfield, Seat Sandal, and Helvellyn in succession. In the north Skiddaw and Saddleback cannot be mistaken, beyond which, the blue mountains of Scotland bound the prospect. Immediately beneath the spectator he will perceive Sty Head Tarn dwindled to a little spot. Great End conceals Borrowdale, and a little to the left rises the mighty mass of Great Gable. Castle Crag, Grange Crag, and Gate Crag, shut out the greater part of Derwentwater. In the north-west are a series of hills, the principal of which are, Causey Pike, Grizedale Pike, Maiden Mawr, Hindscarth and Robinson. Then come the Buttermere and Crummock mountains, with Grasmoor conspicuously visible. Nearer are the Pillar, Hay Cock, High Style, and Red Pike. Westward the eye sinks into the depths of Wastdale, round which are piked Kirkfell, Yewbarrow, Seatallan, and Buckbarrow. The Irish sea bounds the whole western horizon, and over the extremity of the vale of Wast Water the Isle of Man can be sometimes perceived.
Helvellyn. 
This mountain is more widely known by name than any other, partly from its easiness of access, and its proximity to a turnpike road, over which a coach passes daily within a mile and a-half of the summit, and partly in connection with a melancholy accident which some years ago befel a stranger upon it, whose fate, the elegiac verses of Wordsworth and Scott have contributed to make universally lamented. It stands, the highest of a long chain of hills, at the angle formed by the vales of Grasmere, Legberthwaite, and Patterdale, about half way between Keswick and Ambleside. From its central position and its great altitude, it commands an extensive map-like view of the whole Lake district, no fewer than six lakes being visible from its summit, whilst the circumjacent mountains present themselves in fine arrangement. Its height is 3055 feet above the level of the sea, being something more than a hundred feet lower than Scawfell Pikes, and higher than Skiddaw by thirty - three feet. Its geological structure is slate in one part and in another a flinty porphyry.
The ascent of Helvellyn can be effected from several quarters. Grasmere, Legberthwaite, Wythburn, and Patterdale, severally afford advantageous points for the commencement of the escalade, the two latter, however, lying in diametrically opposite directions, are the places where it is usually begun. It may be well, perhaps, to mention, that ponies can be used for a great portion of the way if the lowland be quitted at Grasmere, a facility of which none of the other paths will admit. The ascent from Wythburn, though the shortest, is the steepest. A guide can be procured at the little inn which stands near the chapel, but as the path is easily discovered without his assistance, many persons will feel inclined to dispense with this restraint upon their motions and conversation. The path, which begins to ascend almost at the inn-door, will be pointed out by the people of the inn. A spring, called Brownrigg's Well, issuing from the ground within 300 yards of the summit, sends out a stream, which, after rushing violently down the mountain's side, crosses the highway 200 or 300 yards from the Horse's Head at Wythburn. Taking this stream as a guide, the stranger need have no fear of losing his way, for Helvellyn Man is a little to the left, at the distance we have mentioned, above its source. In the ascent, a small sheet of water, called Harrop Tarn, will be seen under Tarn Crag, a lofty precipice on the opposite side of the receding valley. The scars, seams, and ravines,
 ----" the history of forgotten storms, On the blank folds inscribed of drear Helvellyn,"
which indent the mountain on all sides, will forcibly impress upon every beholder the possible vastness of the effects of those elements whose ordinary results are so trivial.
 Hartley Coleridge.
From Patterdale, the glens of Grisedale and Glenridding may be either of them used as approaches to Helvellyn. The latter glen is to be preferred, as the stream flowing through it, which has its rise in the Red Tarn, may be taken as a guide up the mountain. This tarn lies 600 feet immediately below the highest elevation, fenced in on the south-east, by a ridge of rock called Striding Edge, and on the north-west by a similar barrier, called Swirrel Edge. Cathcedecum, the termination of the latter, must be ascended, and the ridge crossed, in order to attain the object of the climber's ambition. Although the path along this ridge may be somewhat startling, there is no real danger to be apprehended. Sometimes, from mistake or fool-hardiness, Striding Edge is taken' but this is at once appalling and perilous, for at one part the path is not more than two yards broad, with a tremendous precipice on either side. It was at this spot that Charles Gough met with the accident which caused his death. The Edge being passed, little exertion is required to place the weary pedestrian by the side of Helvellyn Man-- as the pile of stones on the summit is called-- thence to gaze on the wonderful display of mountains and lakes which every where surround him. This Man. and that on a lower elevation to the north, form the separating landmarks between Cumberland and Westmorland. And now, as to the view, and the multitudinous objects within its range. Northwards, Keppel Cove Tarn is perceived, having on the right Catchedecam. Beyond the extremity of the tarn Saddleback rears its huge form, a little to the left of which is Skiddaw. Between the two, and in the north-west, a portion of the Solway Firth is descried, and the extreme distance is bounded by the Scottish mountains. Turning eastwards, the Red Tarn below its" huge namless rock," lies between Swirrel Edge on the left, and Striding Edge on the right. Beyond is the crooked form of Ulleswater, on the left margin of which are Gowbarrow Park and Stybarrow Crag, whilst the right is bounded by the dwindled precipices of Place Fell, Beck Fell, and Swarth Fell. High Street and High Bell are seen in the east over Striding Edge. Kirkstone, Fairsfield, and Dolly Waggon Pike, are more to the south. A portion of Windermere is seen over the last named hill, whilst in a clear atmosphere, Lancaster Castle can be descried beyond Windermere. Esthwaite water is directly south, and beyond is the sea in the Bay of Morecambe. In the south-west, the Old Man stands guarding the right shore of Coniston Lake. On the right is the assemblage of hills termed Coniston Fells, whilst Black Combe, beheld through Wrynose Gap, lifts its dreary summit in the distance. The" gorgeous pavillions" of the Buttermere mountains are pitched in the west, amongst which the Pillar and Grasmere are prominent. Cat Bells are visible, though Derwentwater, upon the west margin of which they stand, is hidden. Our old acquaintance, Honister Crag, may be seen in a hollow, a little to the left of Cat Bells. From the lower Man views of Thirlmere and Bassenthwaite Lake are commanded, both of which are concealed by the breast of the mountains from those on the highest Man.
This unfortunate" young lover of nature" attempted to cross Helvellyn from Patterdale one day in the srping of 1805, after a fall of snow had partially concealed the path, and rendered it dangerous. It could never be ascertained whether he was killed by his fall, or had perished from hunger. Three months elapsed before the body ws found, attended by a faithful dog, which he had with him at the time of the accident.
" This dog had been through three months' space A dweller in that savage place; Yes-- proof as plain, that since the day On which the traveller thus had died, The dog had watched about the spot Or by his master's side: How nourished there through such long time, He knows, who gave that love sublime, And gave that strength of feeling great Above all human estimate,"
Thus is this striking instance of brute fidelity commemorated by Wordsworth. Scott's lines on this accident commencing," I climbed the dark brow of the mighty Helvellyn," are too well known to be quoted at length.
Skiddaw. 
As this mountain stands at the head of an extensive valley, apart from the adjacent eminences, its huge bulk and great height are more strikingly apparent than those of the two former, although of inferior altitude to either of them. It is extremely easy of access, so much so, that ladies may ride on horseback from Keswick to the summit, a distance of six miles. According to the Government surveyors, its height is 3022 feet above the sea; upon one part of it granite is to be found, but the great mass of this mountain, as well as of Saddleback, is composed of a dark schistose stone. It is seldom ascended from any other place but Keswick, at which town every thing necessary for the expedition will be furnished. The Penrith road must be pursued for half a-mile, to a bridge which spans the Greta Bank, and skirts Latrigg, at an elevation sufficient to command delightful views of Keswick vale. " This road," says Green," is unequalled for scenic beauty in the environs of Keswick." Traversing a plantation of wood, it enters another road, upon which the visitor, turning to the right, must proceed for a few yards only, as, just beyond a gate across the way, the road to be taken turns to the left at right angles, by the side of a fence, to a hollow at the foot of the steepest hill on the ascent, having on the right a deep ravine, down which a transparent stream is seen falling. The path then holds along for about a mile by the side of a wall, which it crosses, and proceeds in a direct line forward, whilst the wall diverges to the right. A large and barren plain, called Skiddaw Forest, in the middle of which there is a spring of beautifully clear water, is then traversed for a mile, leaving a double-pointed elevation, called Skiddaw Low Man, the highest summit on the left; Skiddaw Man will then be ascended.
Many persons prefer the views which they obtain during the ascent to that from the summit, and reasonably so, if beauty of scenery be sought for. A view will always be indistinct in proportion as it is extensive. Nothing can exceed the charming appearance of the valley and town of Keswick, of Derwentwater and its surrounding eminences, when beheld from the mountain's side; the lake especially, with its bays and islands is nowhere seen to such advantage. In consequence of Skiddaw being exposed to the blasts of the west wind from the Irish Channel, the visitor will not be inclined, from the intense cold, to stay long on the summit; we shall therefore proceed to run over hastily the names of the principal objects which are visible from that elevated position. In the north, beyond the lowlands of Cumberland, in which Carlisle and its cathedral are perceived, the Solway Frith is seen, on the further side of which the Scottish mountains are displayed in fine arrangement. Criffel is seen over Skiddaw Far Man, and the Moffat and Cheviot hills stretch away to the right. Dumfries is visible at the mouth of the frith. In the north-west, over High Pike and Long Brow, the vale and town of Penrith are beheld, with Cross Fell( 2901 feet) beyond. Directly east is the rival summit of Saddleback, separated by the tract called Skiddaw Forest from the mountain on which the spectator is standing. Hevellyn is in the south-east; beyond, Ingleborough in Yorkshire is dimly descried. Between Helvellyn and Saddleback, Place Fell, at the head of Ulleswater, and High Street are visible. When the atmosphere is clear, Lancaster Castle may be seen in the south-east. Derwentwater is not comprehended in the view from the highest Man, being concealed by some of the other eminences of Skiddaw, but from the third man a perfect bird's - eye perspective of that lake is obtained. In the south" there is a succession of five several ranges of mountain seen out-topping each other, from a stripe of the lovely valley to the highest of the Pikes. Grisedale in one grand line stretches from the inclosures at Braithwaite to it Pike, succeeded in the second range by Barrow Stile End, and Utterside. Rising from the fields of Newlands, third range commences with Rolling End, ascending from which are Causey Pike, Scar Crag, Top Sail, Ill Crags, and Grasmoor,-- the latter lessening the Pike of Grisedale by appearing over its top. The fourth line in this wild combination is composed of Cat Bells, Maiden Moor, Dalehead, Hindsgarth, Robinson, High Crag, High Stile, and Red Pike. The fifth and last is that sublime chain of summits, extending on the south from Coniston to Ennerdale on the north; amongst these the High Pile or Man, standing towering over the rest, has on the left Great End, Hanging Knott, Bow Fell, and the Fell of Coniston; on the right, Lingmell Crags, Great Gable, Kirk Fell, Black Sail, the Pillar, the Steeple, and the Hay Cock, with Yewbarrow and part of the Screes through the pass at Black Sail. On the right of Grisedale Pike and Hobcarten Crag is low Fell, succeeded by Whinfield Fell, over which, in a clear atmosphere, may be observed more than the northern half of the Isle of Man; and on a mistless sunny evening, even Ireland may be seen. The north-west end or foot of Bassenthwaite Water is seen here, the head being obscured by Longside." Workington can be seen at the mouth of the Derwent in the west, and more to the north the coast towns of Maryport and Allonby. The town and castle of Cockermouth are perceived, over the extremity of Bassenthwaite Lake, seated on the Cocker. Such is an outline of this wonderful panorama, which may be fitly closed with Wordsworth's fine sonnet:-- 
 Green's Guide.
" Pelion and Ossa flourish side by side, Together in immortal books enrolled; His ancient dower Olympus hath not sold, And that aspiring hill, which did divide Into two ample horns his forehead wide, Shines with poetic radiance as of old; While not an English mountain we behold By the celestial Muses glorified. Yet round our sea-girt shore they rise in crowds; What was the great Parnassus' self to thee, Mount Skiddaw? In his natural sovereignty, Our British hill is nobler far, he shrouds His double front among Atlantic clouds, And pours forth streams more sweet than Castaly."
Coniston Old Man. 
This mountain stands at the north-west angle of Coniston Lake, from the eastern shore of which it presents a magnificent appearance. It is 2577 feet in height, forming the highest peak of the range called Coniston Fells. It is composed of a fine roofing slate, for the excavation of which there are several large quarries. The slates are carried down the lake by means of boats, and, at its termination, are carted to Ulverston. There are also some valuable copper-mines upon this mountain, belonging to Rev. Sir. R. Fleming of Rydal, who is Lord of the Manor. There are three tarns upon the Old Man, called Levens Water, Low Water, and Gates Water. The first lines between that mountain and Wetherlam, a stupendous hill on the north; and the last is placed at the foot of Dow Crag. Low Water, notwithstanding its name, is the highest.
The most eligible mode of ascending the Old Man is to leave the village of Coniston by the Walna Scar road, and, pursuing the way along the common for a few hundred yards, to take a path which will be seen to climb the mountain side on the right. This path leads directly up to the Man, finely built on the edge of a precipice overhanging Low Water. There is a fine open view to the south, embracing the estuaries of the Kent, Leven, and Duddon, a long line of coast, and in serene weather, the Isle of Man. Snowdon may be distinguished on a very clear day. It appears a little to the left of Black Combe, over Millum Park. In the home views, the eye will be attracted by Coniston Lake, the whole length of which is immediately below the spectator. A part of Windermere can be seen more to the east. On other sides, the Old Man is surrounded by high mountains, which wear an aspect of imposing grandeur from this elevation. Scawfell and Bowfell are particularly fine, and the apex of Skiddaw can be discerned in the distance.
Langdale Pikes.

The two peculiarly shaped hills, which stand at the head of the valley of Great Langdale, though known by the general name of Langdale Pikes, have separate names. The most southerly is termed Pike o' Stickle, and is lower by 100 feet than Harrison Stickle, which is 2400 feet in height. They are of a porphyritic structure, and, on account of their steepness, are somewhat difficult to ascend. They are conspicuous objects from the upper end of Windermere, and from the road leading from Kendal to Ambleside. They are usually ascending during the Langdale excursion,( as to which see page 277,) but pedestrians would have no difficulty in making the ascent from the Stake, or from Grasmere through Easdale. The easiest mode, however, is that from Langdale. A guide can be procured at Milbecks, where tourists commonly take some refreshment. The path pursues a peat road leading to Stickle Tarn, well known to the angler for its fine trout, which lies under a lofty ridge of rock called Pavey Ark. This tarn must be left on the right, and a streamlet which runs down the hill-side taken as a guide. The path becomes at this part exceedingly steep, but a little patient exertion will soon place the tourist on the summit of Harrison Stickle. Though of considerably inferior elevation to the other mountains we have described, the views from this spot are extremely fine. Looking eastward, Helvellyn, Seat Sandal, and Fairfield bound the prospect; and, in the north-west and north, Skiddaw and Saddleback are seen in the distance. Stickle Tarn is immediately below the eye, guarded by the frowning heights of Pavey Ark. In the south-east are the hills around the valley of Ambleside, beyond those at the head of Troutbeck and Kentmere. In turning to the south, the eye is attracted by the valley of Great Langdale, containing Elterwater and Loughrigg Tarn, and terminated by Windermere, with Curwen's Isle and the other islands diversifying its smooth surface. Loughrigg Fell conceals a portion of the head of the lake as well as the town of Ambleside. Underbarrow Scar, near Kendal, is seen over Bowness. Esthwaite Water is seen in the south-south-east, and close at hand, towards the right, is the bluff summit of Wetherlam End. A small part of the sea is embraced in the view in the this direction. Through an opening, having on the left Pike o' Bliscoe, and on the right Crinkle Crags, Gatescale is presented in the north. The Old Man and the Great Carrs shut in the prospect in the south-west.
 I. Ulverston-- Coniston Lake-- Ambleside, 24 Miles.	 On Right From Ulverst.	 From Ambl.	 Ulverston.	 From Ulv.	 On Left From Ulverst.	 Penny Bridge, J.P. Machell, Esq.	 18 ½ On the shore of the Leven AEstuary, to Penny Bridge.	 3 ½ Bridge Field, Joseph Penny, Esq.	 16 Along the left bank of the Crake to cr. Lowick Bridge 6 The Crake issues from Coniston Lake, and enters the Leven near Penny Bridge.	 The extensive iron forge of Messrs. Harrison, Ainslie, and Co.	 15 Along the right bank of Crake to 7 Here are the remains of a fine old hall, part of which is occupied by a farmer.		 14 Nibthwaite, near the foot of 8 Water Park, Benson Harrison, Esq. Fine view of the mountains round the head of the lake.	 Two promontories extend into the lake near its foot, which have a most picturesque effect. One is terminated by steep rocks, and both become insulated when the lake is swollen.		 Coniston Lake.		 From an eminence near the highest promontory, a beautiful view of the lake may be obtained. On the opposite shore are the dark Fells of Torver.	 Brantwood, Mrs. Copley, on the left.	 8 ½ Along the east shore ofwhich the road passes to 13 ½ Coniston Bank, Wm. Bradshaw, Esq., on the left.	 8 ¾ 13 ¾ Further up, Coniston Hall, surrounded with trees, is descried. This hall has changed owners twice since the Conquest, most of which time it has belonged to the Flemings. Beyond are the towering fells of Coniston. Just below, is the rocky islet, Peel.	 Tent Lodge, formerly the residence of Miss Elizabeth Smith, a lady of extraordinary acquirements.	 8 ¾ 15 ¾ Waterhead House, James Marshall, Esq.					 This inn is pleasingly situated on the margin of the lake; boats, post-horses, and guides can be supplied. A few days might be spent agreeably here, as the excursions in the vicinity are numerous. The Old Man is in the immediate neighbourhood; its ascent, though a work of toil, would highly gratify the Tourist. A walk into the narrow valleys of Yewdale and Tilberthwaite, will afford many grand scenes. Newfield, in the retired valley of Seathwaite, can be reached by the Walna Scar road, which passes through Church Coniston, and under the Old Man. This road, which is very mountainous and rough, is six miles in length.	 8 Waterhead Inn. To Coniston Vill. 1 mile. To Hawkeshead, 3 miles. To Bowness, 8 miles. On quitting Waterhead Inn, the road winds round the grounds of Waterhead House, and is on the ascent for some distance. The lake presents a striking retrospect from the summit of the ascent.	 14 This lake, called also Thurston Water, is six miles long, and nearly three - quarters of a mile broad, its depth is stated to be 169 feet. Its margin is very regular, having few indentations of any magnitude. Two small islands are situate near the eastern shore. Its principal feeders are the streams from Yewdale and Tilberthwaite, and those running from the tarns on the Man Mountain. It abounds with trout and char; the latter fish is thought to be found in greater perfection here than elsewhere. The scenery at the foot is tame, but that at the upper end is of the grandest description.	 Blelham Tarn.	 4 ½ Borwick Ground.	 17 ½ The Old Man,( 2577 feet,) and Wetherlam,( 2400 feet) are extremely majestic. The greatest portion of the lake belongs to Rev. Sir R. Fleming of Rydal Hall, who has some valuable copper mines upon the Old Man.	 Pull Wyke, a bay of Windermere, here makes an advance. Wansfell Holm, J. Hornby, Esq., Dove Nest, and Low Wood Inn, are pleasing objects on the opposite shore. Wansfell Pike( 1590 feet) rises above.	 2 ½ Road to the Ferry.	 19 ½ Fine view of the Rydal and Ambleside Mountains.	 Brathay Hall 1 ½ cr. Brathay Bridge. enter Westmorland. Clappersgate Vill.		 Croft Lodge, James Holmes, Esq.	 As the road winds round the extremity of Loughrigg Fell, the mountains surrounding the valley of Ambleside are strikingly unfolded.		 cr. Rothay Bridge.	 22 Ambleside.			
 Ii. Kendal-- Bowness-- Hawkeshead-- Coniston, 18 Miles.	 On Right From Kendal.	 From Conist.	 Kendal From Kend.	 On Left From Kendal.	 Kendal must be left by the road over the House of Correction hill.	 16 Turnpike Gate.	 2 St. Thomas' Church.		 13 ¾ Over moorish and hill ground to Crook vill.	 4 ¼ Keep to the left; the road on the right is to Ambleside.				 7 ½ Furness Fells in the distant foreground.	 Bowness village, half a-mile to the right.	 10 ½ First view of Windermere.		 Storr's Hall, Rev. T. Stansforth.	 In crossing, the views up the lake, and of the mountains round the head, are extremely fine. Looking down, Gummer's How, on the east margin, is conspicuous.	 9 ¾ Ferry. Between the two promontories, the lake is only 400 yards across. The Ferry boats are kept on the Lancashire side.	 8 ¼ Berkshire Isle, and a little beyond, the Storr's Point projects. At the Ferry Inn, enquire for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. the Ferry Inn, enquire for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. Ferry Inn, enquire for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. Inn, enquire for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake., enquire for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. enquire for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. for the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. the Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. Station House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake. House, whence there is a splendid view of the lake., whence there is a splendid view of the lake. whence there is a splendid view of the lake. there is a splendid view of the lake. is a splendid view of the lake. a splendid view of the lake. splendid view of the lake. view of the lake. of the lake. the lake. lake.." This vagrant owl hath learned his cheer On the banks of Windermere; Where a band of them make merry, Mocking the man that keeps the Ferry, Hallooing from an open throat, Like travellers shouting for a boat."--  
 Wordsworth's
 Waggoner.
	 Bowness, with its church, school, and villas, is a pretty object.	 9 ½ Ferry Inn. Enter Lancashire.	 8 ½ Belle Isle on the right. Strangers are allowed to land. It contains upwards of thirty acres. Mr. Curwen's house, of a circular shape, is upon it. From the summit of the ascent from the Ferry, Ingleborough is visible. The Old Man is in sight. This lake is two miles in length, and one - third of a mile in breadth. The scenery around it is pleasing, but destitute of any features of grandeur. A peninsula swells from the west shore, and pleasantly relieves the monotonous regularity of the margin. The stream which issues from it, is called the Cunsey; it enters Windermere a mile and a half below the ferry. Many handsome villas enliven the banks of the lake. In a pond near the head, is a diminutive floating island, having upon it several small trees.	 7 Sawrey vill. along the east shore of Esthwaite Lake, and round its head 11 Langdale Pikes are visible: on the right is the Pass Dunmail Raise, to east of which are Helvellyn, Seat Sandal, and Fairfield. The apex of Skiddaw is seen through Dunmail Raise gap.		 5 Hawkshead. Inn, Red Lion. To Ambleside, 5 miles. To Newby Bridge, 8 miles. To Ulverston, 16 miles.	 13	Hawkshead is a small but ancient market-town at the head of the valley of Esthwaite. The old hall where the Abbots of Furness held their Courts, is a farm-house lying about a mile distant. St. Michael's Church, a structure of great antiquity, is placed on a rocky eminence immediately over the town, commanding fine views of the adjacent country.
 --" the grassy churchyard hangs Upon a slope above the village school."
This school was founded in 1585, by Archibishop Sandys, a member of an ancient family still seated in the neighbourhood. The poet Wordsworth, and his brother, the late Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, were educated here. In the verses of the former, allusion is frequently made to
" The antique market village, where days were passed My school-days."
	At the termination of the ascent, the lake and vale of Coniston, hemmed in by magnificent mountains, break upon the eye with almost theatrical surprise.
Waterhead House, Marshall, Esq., on the left.
	 1 Over elevated ground to Coniston Waterhead Inn, a better Inn, and more pleasantly situated than those at Coniston village.	 17 Coniston Village lies immediately under the Man mountain, half a mile from the western margin of the lake. It has two small inns.		 Coniston Vill.	 18		
From Coniston village, or the Inn at Waterhead, a mountain road, five and a half miles in length, passes through Tilberthwaite, between Oxen Fell Cross on the right, and Wetherlam on the left, and joins the Little Langdale road at Fellfoot. The pedestrian might proceed by way of Blea Tarn into Great Langdale. Another road, five miles in length, passing through Yewdale, and climbing the moor on the east of Oxen Fell, enters the road leading from Ambleside to Little Langdale, half a mile above Skelwith Bridge.
A pleasing excursion round the lake might be made by Tourists staying at the Waterhead Inn. Coniston village, on mile; Coniston Hall, formerly a seat of the Flemings of Rydal, but now a farm-house, two miles; on the left, some elevated fells are then interposed between the road and lake. Torver village, three and a half miles. A little beyond Torver Church, turn to the left, the road crosses the rivulet flowing from Gateswater, which lies at the foot of Dow Crag on the Old Man, and approaches the lake at Oxen Houses, five and a half miles. A short distance from the foot, Bowdray Bridge over the Crake, eight and a half miles. Nibthwaite village, nine miles, by the east margin of Waterhead Inn, 17 miles.
 Iii. Kendal To Ambleside, 14 Miles.	 On Right From Kendal.	 From Ambles.	 Kendal From Kendal.	 On Left From Kendal.	 Kendal must be left by the road over the House of Correction Hill. St. Thomas' Church.	 14 Proceed by the Kendal and Windermere Railway to Birthwaite, which is 9 miles from Kendal, 2 from Bowness, and 5 from Ambleside, and where, in the summer season, coaches for all parts of the lake district wait the arrival of the trains.		 Fine views on the right of the valley of Kendal. Shap and Howgill Fells in the distance.	 Keep to the right. Obelisk. Tolson Hall, Mr. Bateman.	 12 2 Road on the left to Bowness, 8 miles from Kendal.	 The valley of Kentmere diverges to the right. It is five or six miles long, and pent in by the hugh mountains of Hill Bell,( 2435 feet.) High Street,( 2700 feet,) and Harter Fell. The remains of a Roman road, the highest in England, are still to be traced upon the two former. At Kentmere Hall, a ruined peel-tower, now occupied as a farm house, Bernard Gilpin," the Apostle of the North," was born 1517.	 10 Stavely vill. Watered by the Kent, upon which there are several bobbin, and woollen mills. From the road between the fourth and fifth milestones Coniston Fells are visible.	 4 The pedestrian, after ascending High Street, which commands an extensive prospect, might descend to Haweswater, or into Martindale, proceeding thence to Patterdale.	 7 ¾ Ing Chapel.	 6 ¼ Ings Chapel was erected at the expense of Richard Bateman, a Leghorn merchant. He was a native of the township; and, being a clever lad, he was sent by the inhabitants to London. He rose by diligence and industry, from the situation of a menial servant to be his master's partner, and amassed a considerable fortune. For some years he resided at Leghorn, whence he forwarded the slabs of marble with which the chapel is floored. His story is alluded to in Wordsworth's" Michael;" but his tragical end is not told. The captain of the vessel in which he was sailing to England, poisoned him, and seized the ship and cargo.		 6 ¼ Bannerigg Head.	 7 ¾ First view of Windermere.	 Orrest Head, John Braithwaite, Esq. A mile beyond is Elleray, belonging to Professor Wilson, but occupied by J. Crowdson, Esq. Banker in Kendal. The view from the front of the house is very fine.	 5 ¾ Orrest Head. Road on the left of Bowness, two miles.	 8 ¼ From this eminence, and hence to the lake, splendid views of the mountains in the west are commanded. Langdale Pikes, from their peculiar shape, are easily known. Bowfell, a broad topped mountain, is on the south. Between the two, Great End and Great Gable are seen. On the southy of Bowfell, Scawfell Pike may be seen in clear weather. Farther south are Crinkle Crags, Wrynose, Wetherlam and Coniston Old Man. To the south east of Langdale Pikes, in the foreground, is Loughrigg Fell; farther back, are Fairfield and Scandale.			 Birthwaite. Railway Terminals. Windermere Hotel.	 9 St Catherines, Earl of Bradford.	 5 Cook's House. Road on the left to Bowness. On the right a road lead through Troutbeck, over Kirkstone, and descends to Ulleswater.			 Road along the banks of the stream to Troutbeck vill, one and a half miles distant.	 4 cr. Troutbeck Bridge.	 10 Calgarth Park, built by the eminent Bishop Watson.	 At the turn of the road, a little beyond the eleventh milestone, the mountains round Ambleside vale open out in a beautiful manner.		 On the margin of Windermere, This portion of the route is eminently beautiful.	 An excellent establishment on the margin of the lake. There is a fine expanse of water visible from the windows. The tourist will find employment for many days in rambling about the adjacent country, or boating upon the lake. Wansfell Holm, J. Hornby, Esq.	 2 Low Wood Inn. To Bowness, 4 miles. To Hawkshead by the Ferry, 9 miles. To Newby Bridge, 12 miles.	 12 Loughrigg Fell is seen on the opposite shore. At its foot, Brathay Hall, G. Redmayne, Esq. Dove Nest, a house inhabited, during one summer, by Mrs Hemans, is a short distance further on the right.	 Waterhead House, Thomas Jackson, Esq.	 1 Toll bar; head of the Lake.	 13 Waterside, Mr Newton.			 Ambleside. Inns-- Salutation, Commercial, and White Lion.	 14 Road to Clappersgate.	
 Iv. Ambleside-- Rydal-- Grasmere-- Thirlemere-- Keswick, 16 Miles.	 On Right From Ambleside.	 From Keswick.		 From Ambles.	 On Left From Ambleside.	 Green Bank, Benson Harrison, Esq.		 Ambleside Fairfield,( 2950 feet,) with its offshoots, closing in the vale. Behind is Wansfell Pike.	 15 ½ cr. Scandale Beck.	 ½ Loughrigg Fell bounds the vale upon the left.	 There is a pretty peep into the glen through which Rydal Beck runs.			 1 Through the meadows on the left, the Rothay flows. A tall straight oak, growing in the wall, is called" Lord's Oak" Pelter Bridge. The road over it divides into two on the other side, one leads back to Ambleside, the other to Grasmere, both extremely beautiful walks.	 Rydal Hall( Rev. Sir R. Fleming,) seated in large park containing some noble trees. There are two cascades within the park, shown on application at the lodge.	 14 ½ Rydal Vill.	 1 ½ Loughrigg Fell here projects, and with a corresponding protrusion from Fairfield, called Rydal Knab, on the opposite side of the valley, leaves room for little more space than what is occupied by the road and the stream flowing from Rydal Mere.	 Rydal Mount. Wordsworth's residence stands a little above the chapel, built by Lady le Fleming in 1824. A splendid view of the valley obtained by climbing the heights behind Rydal Mount.		 Glen Rothay, William Ball, Esq., at the turn of the road.					 Rydal Lake.		 This lake is only about three - quarters of a mile long, by scarcely a fourth of a mile broad. It has two small islands, upon one of which is a heronry, belonging to Rev. Sir. R. Fleming, the owner of the lake.	 The Knab, a house formerly occupied by the English Opium Eater, and by Hartley Coleridge, eldest son of the great s. T. Coleridge.		 The towering heights of Knab Scar on the right. Loughrigg Fell on the left.			 Excavations of a great size have been made here. At this place the old road to Grasmere branches off. It is shorter, and to be preferred by those on foot, for the fine views it commands of Rydal and Grasmere lakes. It leads past" The Wishing Gate."	 12 ½ White Moss Slate Quarry.	 2 ½ The road here winds round a projecting rock. Grasmere Lake suddenly breaks upon the view beyond the projection.			 Along the margin of Grasmere Lake.		 This lake is one mile and a quarter in length, and one - third of a mile broad. it has a single island in the centre. The hills around are happily disposed.	 One of these cottages was Wordsworth's dwelling for seven years, De Quincey afterwards resided in it for some time.	 12 ½ Town End.	 3 ½ Parties staying at Grasmere or the Swan, should visit Easedale, a recess of Grasmere. It contains a lonely tarn, surrounded by lofty rocks.		 Road on the left to Grasmere village, a sweet little place, near which is Allan Bank, Thomas Dawson, Esq., and the Cottage,-- Mrs. Orrell.		 The view from the road near the head of the lake, looking forward, is extremely fine. Silver How is seen over the south-west angle of the water; right onward, is Helm Crag, the summit of which is strewn with large blocks of stone, presenting many eccentric forms. Green thought he saw a likeness to a lion and a lamb. West, to a mass of antedilluvian remains, and Otley says, that viewd from Dunmail Raise, a mortar elevated for throwing shells in to the valley, is no unapt comparison. the road is seen to pass over Dunmail Raise, a depression between two hills, that on the left, is Steel fell, the other, Seat Sandal.		 12 Hollins and Lowther Hotel.	 4" Who does not know the famous Swan?"	 11 ¾ Swan Inn, The ascent of Helvellyn is not unusually commenced here.	 4 ½ A mile beyond the inn, a mountain road strikes off into Patterdale, climbing on the way a steep haws between Fair Field and Seat Sandal, and passing a desolate sheet of water, called Grisedale Tarn, lying between Seat Sandal, and Helvellyn.					
 Helm Crag. Fine retrospective views: from the summit, Skiddaw is visible.	 10 ¾ Toll Bar. The road rises gradually until it attains the height of 720 feet, at the pass of 5 ¼ Fair Field. Seat Sandal.	 The tradition is, that Dunmail, King of Cumberland, was defeated here by Edmund the Saxon king, in 945. A cairn, still in part remaining, was raised as a memorial of the victory. The conqueror put out the eyes of his adversary's two sons, and gave the territory to Malcolm, king of Scotland, to preserve the peace of the northern part of the kingdom.	 8 ½ Dunmail Raise. Enter Cumberland. Steel Fell on the left. Seat Sandal on the right.	 6 ½	" They now have reached that pile of stones, Heaped over brave King Dunmail's bones, He who once held supreme command, Last king of rocky Cumberland; His bones, and those of all his power, Slain here in a disastrous hour."--  
 Wordsworth.
Thirlmere in view.
	 The road is too near the foot of Helvellyn to allow any notion to be formed of that mountain's immense height.	 8 ¼ Horse's Head, Wytheburn. The village, called locally" the city," is half a mile distant on the left.	 7 ¾	The ascent of Helvellyn from this inn is shorter, but steeper, than from any other place. Opposite the inn, is the chapel which Wordsworth describes as
" Wytheburn's modest house of prayer, As lowly as the lowliest dwelling."
	 Armboth House, w. Jackson, Esq., on the west shore. Half way down the lake on the right, are some houses called Fisher's Place, near which are some pretty cascades formed by a stream flowing off Helvellyn.		 Thirlemere Lake, called also Wytheburn Water and Leathes water, washing the base of Helvellyn.		 Eagle Crag is seen hanging over the upper end of the lake, a sheet of water, environed by frowning precipices, two and a half miles long, 500 feet above the level of the sea, and about 100 feet in depth. There is a small island near the shore at its foot. It is so narrow as to allow a wooden bridge to be thrown across its middle. To obtain some picturesque views, the lake should be crossed by this bridge, and the road on the west shore taken, which joins the turnpike road, a little beyond the twelfth mile stone. Raven Crag is a fine object near the foot. This lake is the property of T. s. Leathes, Esq., whose residence, Dalehead House, is in the neighbourhood.	 Pedestrians frequently cross Armboth Fell to the village of Watendlath, proceeding thence to Keswick. Splendid views of Derwentwater are obtained in the descent. Near the foot of Thirlemere, one extremity of the vale of St. John is passed. The views along it, with Saddleback beyond, are very fine. The celebrated" Castle Rock" stands at the entrance on the right. " From a field on the eastern side of the road, and a little short of the tenth milestone, the view of the vale of St. John presents a most singularly interesting assemblage of the wild and the lovely."-- Green.						 6 Road on the right through St. John's Vale.	 10 4 ¾ cr. Smeathwaite Bridge over St. John's Beck, which issues from Thirlemere.	 11 ¼ Naddle Fell.				 Shoulthwaite Moss, backed by a rocky hill called Bend.	 Hence may be seen the three mountains, Skiddaw, Saddleback, and Helvellyn.	 2 Causey Foot.	 14 A farm-house on the left, shaded by wood, is named Causey Foot.	 From this place, there is the view of the vale of Derwent and its two lakes, which Gray regretted so much to leave. Skiddaw is immediately before the eye.	 1 ¼ Summit of Castlerigg 14 ¾ When the pedestrian reaches a piece of open ground in the descent, he is advised to enter one of the fields on the left, to obtain a view of the whole expanse of Derwentwater.			 Keswick.			
 V. Ambleside-- Langdale-- Eskdale-- Egremont-- Whitehaven, 38 Miles.	 *** The whole portion of this route is seldom travelled continuously; but as most of it will be traversed in detached portions, it has been thought better to place the total distance under one description, from which the Tourist may select the sections he requires. In consequence of there being no inn at which post-horses are kept between Ambleside and Calder Bridge, carriages cannot pursue this route.	 On Right From Ambleside.	 From Whiteh.	 Ambleside From Ambles.	 On Left From Ambleside.			 cr. Rothay Bridge.			 Croft Lodge, James Holmes, Esq.	 37 Clappersgate vill.	 1 A road on the left, leading to Hawkshead, crosses the Brathay and enters Lancashire.	 Loughrigg Fell.					 Two miles and a half from Ambleside, a road turns into Great Langdale.		 On the banks of the Brathay, Brathay Chapel.		 Sweeter stream scenery, with richer fore and loftier back grounds, is no where to be seen within the four seas.  -- Wilson.	 There is a waterfall a short distance above the bridge 20 feet in height. The views of Langdale Pikes are extremely fine.	 35 cr. Skelwith Bridge. Enter Lancashire. Having crossed the bridge, the road on the right leading up a steep hill must be taken.		 Road deviates between the two bridges, passing on the east of Oxen Fell through Yewdale to Coniston.	 From the terrace attained soon after passing Skelwith Br. there is a superb view of Elterwater, and of Great and Little Langdale, separated by Lingmoor.					 Road into Great Langdale skirting the head of Elterwater Tarn. Lingmoor.	 33 ½ cr. Colwith Bridge. Re Enter Westmorland.	 4 ½ A little above the bridge in a deep dell near the road is a fine waterfall called Colwith Force, 70 feet in height. One mile beyond, Little Langdale Tarn is perceived. Wetherlam, a stupendous mountain, rises on the south of the tarn.	 A road bends to the right; and, after passing Blea Tarn, enters the head of Great Langdale. Along this road the Pikes wear their boldest features.	 31 Fell Foot.	 7 Mountain road through Tilberthwaite to Coniston, 5 miles.					 The toilsome ascent of Wrynose is commenced at this place. The retrospective views are fine. Wansfell Pike is seen in the distance.			 The road winds steeply to the summit of The Carrs, and Coniston Fells.	 At the spot where the Counties of Cumberland, Westmorland, and Lancashire unite, the Three Shire Stones are placed.	 29 ½ Wrynose,( Pronounced locally Raynus.) Enter Lancashire.	 8 ½ Traces of a Roman road over both Hardknot and Wrynose are yet remaining.	 The ascent of Hardknot is begun; the highest part of the hill is on the right.	 27 ½ Descend to Cockley Beck Bridge, over the Duddon. Enter Cumberland.	 10 ½ The Duddon bends at this place; and, passing through the beautiful vale of Seathwaite, enters Morecambe Bay, near Broughton. The distance between Cockly Beck and Broughton by the road is 12 miles. The pedestrian is strongly advised to traverse this valley, unsurpassed in picturesque and retired beauty by any other in the Lake district. It may be approached from Coniston by the Walna Scar road. There is an inn at Newfield, 4 or 6 miles down the valley. The duddon is the subject of a series of sonnets by Wordsworth.	From this summit there is a magnificent view of Scawfell Pikes and Scawfell. On the left the Irish Sea is seen; and, in clear weather, the Isle of Man. Half way down the hill, and about 120 yards frmo the road, are the faintly visible remains of a Roman fortification called Hardknot Castle, once a place of importance.
 -- that lone camp on Hardknot's height, Whose Guardians bent the knee to Jove and Mars.
	 25 ½ Summit of Hard Knot.	 12 ½ Descend into Eskdale.			 The mountains encircling Eskdale, are the Seathwaite Fells on the left, and projections from Scawfell on the right.	 24 ½ cr. Esk Bridge.	 13 ½ This beautiful vale is watered by the Esk, which, after a course of about 16 miles, enters the sea near Ravenglass. The valley is narrow at the spot where it is entered, but it widens rapidly towards the west. It contains two or three hamlets and a few scattered houses. Great numbers of sheep are pastured in it.	
 The Wool Pack, a small inn, is a short distance fro the road.	 23 Dawson Ground.	 15 Birker Force, a fine cascade, may be seen from the road amongst the cliffs. The rocks around are very grand.	 The inn is a little to the right of the road. At this place a mountain road leaves Eskdale, and passing Burnmoor tarn, enters Wastdale Head between the Screes and Scawfell, 6 miles. The latter mountain may be ascended from Eskdale.	 22 Bout vill.	 16 At the schoolhouse a road strikes off to the left, conducting to Dalegarth Hall, now a farm house, but formerly a residence of the Stanley's of Ponsonby, at which directions will be given to a noble waterfall, called Stanley Gill or Dalegarth Force. The stream is crossed three times by wooden bridges on approaching the fall. The chasm is exceedingly grand. Returning, the Eskdale and Wastdale mountains, with Scawfell amongst them, are seen in fine outline.	 On elevated ground, 4 miles south of Bout, there is a lonely tarn, with a rocky island in its centre, called Devoke water. About half a mile from its foot are some ruins called Barnscar, which, according to the tradition, were a Danish city. The situation is marked by several small piles of stones. No record of such a place has, however, come down to us. A number of silver coins have been found at it.						 18 cr. Bridge over the Mite. Fine view of the coast from the road between the two bridges.	 20 Road to Ravenglass, a small town, 19 miles frmo Ulverston, and 16 miles from Whitehaven, seated in an arm of the sea at the confluence of the Esk, Irt, and Mite. A small coasting trade is carried on as well as ship-building and oyster fishing. Muncaster Castle, Lord Muncaster's seat, is near it. Black Combe, a lofty hill, 7 miles to the south of the town, commands an extensive view of the coast. The Welsh mountain, and the isle of Man, are within the boundary of the view.	 Here a road diverges to Strands, a small village, one mile from the foot of Wast Water. From Latterbarrow an eminence, under which the road passes, there is a fine view of the lake.	 16 ½ cr. Santon Bridge, across the Irt, which flows from Wast Water.	 21 ½ Road to Strands, four miles.	 13 Gosforth vill.	 25 In the churchyard is a stone pillar of great antiquity, covered with illegible carvings. Ponsonby Hall , J.E. Stanley, Esq.	 One mile above this bridge are the remains of Calder Abbey, founded in 1134, for monks of the Cistercian order. The abbey stands on the grounds pertaining to Captain Irwin's residence.	 10 cr. Calder Bridge.	 28 Here there are two good inns.		 6 Egremont.	 32 Spring Field, Robt. Jefferson Esq.	 Keckle Grove, F. L. B. Dykes, Esq.	 3 35 Linethwaite, George Harrison, Esq.	 Summer Grove, Major Spedding.		 Whitehaven.	 38 Hensingham House, Henry Jefferson, Esq.	
 Egremont is a neat market town, containing about 1500 inhabitants, seated at the distance of two miles and half from the coast, upon the banks of the Ehen, the stream which flows from Ennerdale Lake. It is stated to have been a borough at the period when Paliamentary representatives were remunerated for their services; and that, to avoid the expense of a member, the burgesses petitioned to have the burgh disfranchised, which was accordingly done. The Parish Church is an ancient edifice, dedicated to St Mary. It was granted by William de Meschiens to the Cell of St Bees. Upon an eminence to the west of the town stand the ruins of Egremont Castle, formerly a place of great strength and importance. It was built by the above named William de Meschiens soon after the Norman Conquest. In the lapse of time it passed into the possession of the Lucy family. There is a tradition respecting the fortress whilst belonging to the Lucies, which Wordsworth has versified in some stanzas entitled," The Horn of Egremont Castle." General Wyndham is the present owner of both the Manor and Castle of Egremont. Large quantities of iron ore are excavated in the neighbourhood, which are conveyed to Whitehaven unsmelted, and thence shipped to South Wales. St Bees, at which there is a fine Conventual Church, is two and a half mile distant. A good road, of seven miles in length, conducts to the foot of Ennerdale Lake. The distances from Egremont to the neighbouring towns are,-- Ravenglass, 11 miles; Broughton, 20 miles; Ulverston, 30 miles; Cockermouth, 18 miles; Maryport, 20 miles.
 Vi. Whitehaven-- Cockermouth-- Bassenthwaite Lake-- Keswick, 27 Miles.	 On Right From Whiteha.	 From Keswick.		 From Whiteha.	 On Left From Whiteha.	 Scilly Bank, 500 feet.		 Whitehaven.			 In the neighbourhood of Moresby, is the site of Arbeia, a Roman station, where various antique remains have been discovered. All marks of the station have been long defaced by the plough.		 A coach travels daily between Cockermouth and Birthwaite, connecting the Whitehaven and Maryport, and the Kendal and Windermere Railyways.		 A handsome freestone arch, with an entablature adorned with the arms of the Lowther family, spancs the road on leaving the town for the north.	 24 ½ 2 ½ Moresby Church: Moresby Hall, Miss Tate.	 Rose Hill, Gilfrid Hartley, Esq.	 24 Moresby Vill.	 3 Roseneath, Mrs. Solomon.				 Parton and Harrington, two small sea-ports, are near Moresby.	 Road to Lowes Water.	 23 ¼ 3 ¾ Prospect, Capt. Caldecott.	 22 Distington Vill.	 5 At the south-end of the village, are the ruins of Hayes Castle, once the residence of the Moresby family.	 Gilgarron( Walker).					 The road is for some miles in the vale of the Derwent. This river takes its name on issuing from Derwentwater. It subsequently enters Bassenthwaite Lake, and finally, after winding through a pleasant country, enters the sea at Workington.	 20 ¾ Brigham Chapel on the left. The village is half a mile to the right.	 6 ¼ Road to Workington.	 A description of this town is appended to No. Vii.	 13 Cockermouth, seated on the Derwent, at the junction of the Cocker.	 14 Junction of the road from Workington to Cockermouth. These towns are eight miles from each other. The former is a sea-port, carrying on a considerable coasting trade. There are several extensive collieries in the neighbourhood, chiefly belonging to H.C. Curwen, Esq. of Workington Hall.	 Sale Fell.	 10 Wheat Sheaf.	 17 The valley through which the road passes, is watered by a small stream, which enters the large bay, near the foot of Bassenthwaite Water, called Peel Wyke.	 8 ½ Bassenthwaite Lake.	 18 ½ Road to Carlisle, skirting the foot of the lake.	 The opposite shore is pleasantly indented with several promontories, the three principal of which are called Scarness, Braidness, and Bowness. There is a fine breadth of cultivated land, sprinkled with hamlets and solitary houses, between the lake and the mountains.	 6 ½ Smithy Green.	 20 ½ Skiddaw on its east side, furnishes, in combination with the water, many splendid views. Beyond the head, are Wallow and Falcon Crags, backed by Bleaberry Fell and High Seat. At the foot of Skiddaw, is Dodd Fell, and in the distance Helvellyn is visible. In front of a portion of Skiddaw, called Long Side, and near the margin of the lake, stand Bassenthwaite Church and Mirehouses, the residence of John Spedding, Esq.	 The road traverses a thickly wooded country, at the base Wythop Fells, Barf, and Lord's Seat. One of West's stations is at Beck Wythop, whence, says he, the whole cultivated land, between the lake and the mountains, is seen in all its beauty, and Skiddaw appears nowhere of such majestic height as from this place.						 3 ¾ Thornthwaite Vill.	 23 ¼ 2 cr. the stream from Newlands.	 25 A road, nine miles in length, leads through Newlands to Buttermere. The lower part of the vale is picturesque, the upper, wild.	 Many pretty villas adorn the little village. From eminences in the neighbourhood, views both of Derwentwater and Bassenthwaite Lake are commanded.	 1 ¼ Portinscale Vill.	 25 ¾ Long Bridge.		 Grisedale Pike, a fine object.			 Keswick. Inns, Royal Oak, Queen's Head, and King's Arms.	 27 Greta Hall, the residence of the late Robert Southey.	
 Vii. Keswick-- Borrowdale-- Buttermere-- Scalehill-- Cockermouth, 25 ½ Miles.	 On Right From Keswick.	 From Cockerm.	 Keswick.	 From Keswick.	 On Left From Keswick.		 25 ¼ Road to the Lake.	 ¼ Vicar's or Derwent Isle.	 25 ½ Castle Head, an eminence from which there is a beautiful view of the lake.	 Lord's Isle. Friar Crag Projects into the lake a little beyond. Cat Bells are fine objects on the opposite shroe, Grizedale and Causey Pikes are to the left of them.				 Wallow Crag. Falcon Crag.	 Behind Barrow House is a cascade of 124 feet fall.	 23 ½ Barrow House. J.P. Senhouse, Esq.	 2 Road to the hamlet called Watendlath, placed near a tarn in a desolate and narrow vale.					 Thrang Crag.	 The many topped Skiddaw, lifting its gigantic bulk beyond the foot of the lake, is a grand object. Crosthwaite Church will be observed lying at its base.	 22 ½ Lowdore Inn.	 3 The celebrated fall lies behind the inn, on the stream running from Watendlath Tarn. Its height is 100 feet. Gowder Crag on the left, Shepherd's Crag on the right of the fall.	 Grange Bridge, and the village of Grange. The road returns to Keswick by the west margin of Derwent Water. Borrowdale, a valley 6 miles long, and containing 2000 acres, is now entered. It is watered, in its whole length, by the River Grange, which, after it issues from Derwent Water, takes the name of Derwent. At Castle Crag the road and the bed of the river occupy all the level portion, but beyond the vale widens considerably. Above Rosthwaite the valley divides into two branches; the eastern branch is called Stonethwaite. Borrowdale formerly belonged to Furness Abbey.	 21 ½ 4 Grange Crag.		 20 ½ Castle Crag on the right. " From the summit of this rock the views are so singularly great and pleasing, that they ought never to be omitted." West.	 5	There is a good view from this eminence. Shortly before reaching this point, a road deviates to, and passes, Bowder Stone, re-entering the main road a little beyond. This mass of rock has been likened to
A stranded ship with keel upturned that rests Careless of winds or wave.
It is 62 feet long, 35 feet high, and 89 feet in circumference. It has been estimated to weigh 1871 tons, and to contain 23,000 cubic feet. The view hence is exquisitely beautiful.
		 18 cr. Seatollar Bridge.	 7 ½ Near this bridge the road into Wastdale, by Sty Head, strikes off.	 The ascent of Buttermere Haws, which rises to the height of 1100 feet above the sea, is now commenced. The retrospective views are fine. A portion of Helvellyn is seen over the Borrowdale and Armboth Fells.	 17 ½ Seatollar. Abraham Fisher, Esq. Descend into Buttermere dale.	 8 The well known black lead mine, and the immense Borrowdale Yews, are near Seatollar. The former is the only mine of the kind in England. the largest of the yews is 21 feet in girth.	 Yew Crag. The upper part of this vale is exceedling wild and uncultivated.	 13 ½ Honister Crag.	 10 Honister Crag, 1700 feet high. Here are some valuable slate quarries belonging to General Wyndham.	
 A few houses placed half a mile above the head of Buttermere Water," under the most extraordinary ampitheatre of mountainous rocks that ever eye beheld."	 13 ½ Gatesgarth.	 12 A mountain path conducts by the pass called Scarf Gap into Ennerdale. Black Sail, another pass leads into Wastdale.	 This lake is one and a half miles long and half a mile broad; and at its deepest part is 90 feet deep. Char is taken plentifully. The distance between this lake and Crummock Water is about three quarters of a mile.		 On the eastern margin of Buttermere Lake.		 The lofty mountains seen above the opposite shore are Hay Stacks, High Crag, High Stile, and Red Pike. Between the two latter is a tarn, the stream running from which makes a pretty waterfall.		 12 ½ Hasness( General Benson) on the left.	 13 The Chapel has been lately rebuilt; before, it was the most diminutive in the kingdom. A road, nine miles in length, climbs a steep Haws upwards of 1000 feet high, and descending into Keskadale and Newlands, proceeds to Keswick.	 11 ½ Buttermere vill. With a good Inn.	 14 Scale Force, the loftiest waterfall in the lakes, is 2 miles distant to the west of Crummock Water. Its heigh is 156 feet. A mountain path leads by this fall, and Floutern Tarn into Ennerdale, 6 miles.	 This lake is about three miles long by three quarters of a mile broad. Its depth is in some parts 120 feet. It abounds with char and fine trout. There are three small islands close to the shore at the head of the lake.		 Along the eastern shore of Crummock Water. " The mountains of Buttermere and Crummock are no where so impressive as from the bosom of Crummock Water." Wordsworth.		 Having wound round a bold promontory called Rannerdale Knott, a splendid view of the lake is presented. Melbreak is a grand object on the other margin. From its foot there juts a narrow promontory, a little above which there is a remarkably fine view. The mountains on the east shore are Whiteless Pike, Ladhouse, Grasmoor, and Whiteside.	 a little before reaching Longthwaite, a few houses to the left of the road, some high ground is interposed between the road and the lake. The road afterwards passes between Haws on the left, and Whiteside on the right.	 8 ½ Longthwaite vill.	 17 Four miles from Buttermere, the road from Scale Hill to Cockermouth is entered. A turn must be made to the left.	 Lowes Water, which sends a stream into Crummock Lake is about one mile and a half distant. This lake is three quarters of a mile long, scarcely one quarter broad, and about 60 feet in extreme depth. It lies between Low Fell in the south, and Blake Fell in the north. The scenery around its foot is, contrary to the general rule, finest at its foot, and here it is very grand. Melbreak forms a striking feature in the views.	 7 Scale Hill. To Whitehaven, 14 miles by Ullock and Moresby. To Egremont, 15 miles by Lamplugh and Ennerdale Bridge. To Calder Bridge, by the same places, 17 miles. To Keswick by Lorton and Whinlatter, 12 miles.	 18 ½ There is a good inn at this place, where the tourist would do well to stay a few days. The village is about a quarter of a mile from the River Cocker, which flows from Crummock Water, and is here crossed by a bridge of five arches. A good prospect is obtained from an eminence in Mr Marshall's wood. The pedestrian may make his way by the stream issuing from Floutern Tarn behind Melbreak into Ennerdale, seven miles.	 Road under Whiteside to Keswick which shortens the distance by two miles. For horsemen and pedestrians it is the preferable route.	 6 19 ½ The road to Cockermouth passes through the vale of Lorton on the east bank of the Cocker. This vale presents many richly picturesque views. It is three miles in length, with many elevated hills around; but not lofty enough to cast a gloom upon the smiling aspect of the scenery. Lorton Hall, R. Bridge, Esq.	 Deviation of the road through Lorton vill. to Keswick. The famous yew tree," pride of Lorton vale," stands near the junctino of this road with that from Keswick to Cockermouth.	 4 21 ½ 3 Enter the Keswick and Cockermouth road. 9 miles from Keswick.	 22 ½ Cockermouth. Inns, Globe, Sun.	 25 ½		
Cockermouth is an ancient borough and neat market-town of 7275 inhabitants, seated at the junction of the Cocker with the Derwent, from which circumstance it derives its name. It sent two representatives to Parliament as early as the twenty - third year of Edward I., and, by the Reform Act, it has still the privilege of returning two members. The honour and castle of Cockermouth belong to General Wyndham. The ruins of this ancient fortress, formerly a place great strength, are seated on a bold eminence which rises from the east bank of the Cocker. It was built soon after the Norman Conquest by Waldieve, first lord of Allerdale, of whose successors it was for many centuries the baronial seat. In 1648, it was garrisoned for King Charles, but being afterwards taken by the Parliamentarians, was dismantled by them, and has ever since lain in ruins, except a small part at present occupied by Lieut. - General Wyndham. The Gateway Tower, embellished with the arms of the Umfravilles, Multons, Lucies, Percies, and Nevilles, is a striking object. On the north side of the town is a tumulus, called Toots Hill; one mile to the west are the remains of a rampart and ditch of an encampment, 750 feet in circuit, called Fitt's Wood. On the summit of a hill at Pap Castle, a village one mile and a-half south-west of Cockermouth, are the traces of a Roman castrum. A great number of antique remains have been discovered at this place, and in the neighbourhood. The castle was subsequently the residence of the above-mentioned Waldieve, by whom it was demolished, and the materials used in the construction of Cockermouth Castle. Tickell, the poet, Addison's friend, was born at Bridekirk, two miles distant.
 Cockermouth is the birth-place of the poet Wordsworth, who was born on the 7th April, 1770.
The seats in the neighbourhood are-- Dovenby Hall( Mrs Dykes), three miles north-west; Tallentire Hall( William Browne, Esq.), three and a half miles north; Isel Hall( Sir Wilfrid Lawson Bt.)., three and a half miles north-east; Woodhall( J. s. Fisher, Esq.), two and a half miles north.
The best inns are, the Globe, and the Sun. The distances to the principal towns in the neighbourhood are-- Maryport, seven miles, Workington, eight miles, Keswick, by Whinlatter, twelve miles, by Bassenthwaite Water, thirteen and a-half miles, Whitehaven, fourteen miles, Wigton, sixteen miles, Carlisle, twenty - seven miles.
Cockermouth is now connected by railway with Workington. This line, which is 8 ¾ miles in length, was opened for traffic in 1847.
 Viii. Keswick-- Borrowdale-- Wast Water-- Egremont. 31 Miles.	 On Right From Keswick.	 From Egrem.	 Keswick.	 From Keswick.	 On Left From Keswick.			 For 7 ½ miles the road is the same as the former No.				 23 ½ cr. Seatollar Bridge. Road to the left.	 7 ½" Travellers who may not have been accustomed to pay attention to things so unobtrusive," says Wordsworth, speaking of the rude bridges of this district," will excuse me if I point out the proportion between the span and elevation of the arch, the lightness of the parapet, and the graceful manner in which its curve follows faithfully that of the arch."	 The wad mine is in a recess called Gillercoom, in the side of the mountain on the right. The path crosses the stream at Far Bridge; from this place an immense mass of rock called Hanging Stone is visible. Near the mine are the famous yew trees. Advancing, Taylor's Gill forms a fine cascade after rain.	 22 ¾ cr. Seathwaite Bridge. Keppel Crag and Hind Crag on the left. Seathwaite vill.				 21 ½ cr. Stockley Bridge. The road winds precipitously up Aaron End.	 9 ½ Bay's Brown.					 Taylor's Gill Bend.					 Saddleback is seen over Borrowdale.	 Sty Head Tarn, a desolate sheet of water, beyond which Great End rises abruptly. Father on is Scawfell Pikes. Sprinkling Tarn, which sends a stream into Sty Head Tarn, is half a mile to the east. These tarns serve as guides in the ascent of the Pikes from Borrowdale.	 19 Sty Head.	 12 A magnificent pass elevated 1250 feet above the valley. The road descends very steeply between Great Gable on the right, and Great End and Scawfell on the left, to Wastdale Head, a level and secluded valley, of a few hundred acres, at the head of Wast Water, shut in by lofty mountains that rise like walls from it. Here is a chapel, but no inn. Garnets are found, embedded in the slate of Gable and Lingmell.	 A mountain road of six miles conducts from Wastdale Head, between Lingmell and the Screes, into Eskdale. The pedestrian and horseman may reach Ennerdale by the pass of Black Sail, or, by traversing another pass called Scarf Gap, may enter Buttermere dale at Gatesgarth. This path is six miles in length.	 17 Wastdale Head 14 15 ½ Head of Wast Water.	 15 ½ This lake is 3 ½ miles in length, and about half a mile broad; its extreme depth is 270 feet. The grand mountains and bare rocks around this lake, invest it with a peculiar air of desolation. The Screes, whose sides" shiver in all the subdued colours of the rainbow," extend along the whole length of the opposite shore, whilst the road passes under Yewbarrow and Buckbarrow Pike.		 14 ½ cr. Overbeck Bridge.	 16 ½ Turn to see the panorama of mountains at the head of the valley, Yewbarrow, Kirkfell, Great Gable, Lingmell, Scawfell Pikes, and Scawfell.		 Crook end, C. Rawson, Esq.	 Strands is a pretty little village with two inns. The tourist making it his head quarters for a few days, will find many pleasant excursions in the vicinity. The view of Wast Water commanded from Latterbarrow, a rocky hill in the neighbourhood, is extremely fine. A curious ravine called Hawl Gill, in the south-east extremity of the Screes, is worth a visit; and those who are fond of mountain rambles, may pass along the summit of the Screes and descend to Wastdale Head. The views from this elevated situation are magnificent.	 11 Strands vill.	 20 From a field fronting Crook, there is one of the best views, not only of the head, but of the whole body, of the lake. From no other point of view are the colours of the Screes more beautiful, more majestic the outline, more magnificent the frowning cliffs. Wilson.		 7 ½ cr. Bleng Bridge.	 23 ½ 7 Gosforth vill.	 24 4 cr. Calder Bridge.	 27 Egremont.	 31		
 Ix. Keswick-- Threlkeld-- Penrith, 18 Miles.	 On Right From Keswick.	 From Penrith.	 Keswick From Keswick.	 On Left From Keswick.	 One mile and three - quarters from Keswick, on an eminence to the right of the old road to Penrith, is a Druidical Circle.	 17 ½ ½ Greta Bank Bridge. Greta Bank, Thos. Spedding, Esq. Latrigg," Skiddaw's Cub."		 15 ¼ cr. Naddle Bridge 2 ¼ Road into St. John's Vale, also through Matterdale to Ulleswater and Patterdale, fourteen and a half miles from Keswick.	 15 ½ 2 ½ 14 ¾ cr. New Bridge.	 3 ¼ The Riddings, Joseph Cresier, Esq.	 Road into St. John's Vale.	 14 Threlkeld Vill.	 4	" And see beyond that hamlet small, The ruined towers of Threlkeld Hall."
This hall was ocne the residence of Sir Lancelot Threlkeld, a powerful knight in the reign of Henry Vii. It is now occupied as a farm-house. The Earl of Lonsdale is proprietor.
	 The road lies under Saddleback, a mountain of somewhat inferior elevation to Skiddaw. Its summit is difficult to access, but the views are extensive. On the south and east, it commands finer prospects than Skiddaw, but on other sides they are much intercepted. Its geological structure is similar to that of Skiddaw.		 The stream watering this vale, is called the Glenderamakin, until its confluence with St. John's Beck, after which it is termed the Greta.				 12 ¼ Scales.	 5 ¾ Road to Hesketh New-Market.	 Mell Fell, a conical hill, formed of a curious conglomerate.		 Over moorish uninteresting ground.		 From the hill near the eight mile-stone from Keswick, there is a fine view over the vale of Threlkeld to the Newland's Mountains.		 11 Moor end.	 7 Road through Matterdale to Ulleswater.	 8 ½ Spring Field.	 9 ½ Road to Calbeck.	 Slate has now disapppeared and new red sandstone taken its place.	 6 ¾ Penruddock Vill. Observe the peculiar shape of Blencathara, from which the other name of that mountain is taken.	 11 ¼ Greystock Castle, two miles on the left. The park is very extensive. The mansion is a fine building, containing some good pictures. Greystock Church, built in the reign of Edward Ii., contains some ancient monuments. Many relics of antiquity abound in the neighbourhood.	Road through Dacre to Pooley Bridge, at the foot of Ulleswater, four miles. Dacre Castle, formerly the residence of the famous border family of Dacre, has been converted into a farm house. The name is derived from the exploits of one of their ancestors, at the siege of Acre-- the St. Jean d' Acre of modern times-- in the Holy Land under Richard Coeur de Lion. Another branch of this clan was settled in Gilsland in Cumberland. There are many ballads and traditions which still
 --" proclaim Douglas or Dacre's conquering name."
Bede says, that a monastery once stood at Dacre, and about 980, a congress was held here, at which King Athelstan, accompanied by the King of Cumberland, received homage from Constantine, King of Scotland.
	 5 13 2 ¼ Stainton Vill.	 15 ¼ One mile and a half to the right, Dalemain , E.W. Hasell, Esq.		 1 ¾ Red Hills.	 16 ¼ Half a mile beyond Stainton, the road from Penrith to Ulleswater deviates to the right. Hence there is a charming view of the Vale of Penrith, and the mountains circling Ulleswater, which lake is hidden by Dunmallet, a wooded hill at its foot. Yanwath Hall, is seen on the banks of the Eamont, one mile and a half from Penrith on the right.			 Penrith. Inns, The Crown; George.	 18 Skirsgill, L. Dent, Esq.	
 X. Penrith-- Ulles Water-- Patterdale-- Kirkstone-- Ambleside, 24 ½ Miles.	 *** Instead of the first five miles and three quarters of the road given below, the Tourist may cross Eamont Bridge on the road to Kendal, turning to the right a little beyond, to Yanwath vill. ( two miles,) leaving King Arthur's Round Table on the left. Here is Yanwath Hall, an ancient castellated building, a good specimen of the old Westmorland Hall. Sockbridge vill. is a mile further. The hall at this place is a ruin deserving the attention of the artist. Barton church is seen on the right a mile beyond. Pooley Bridge is reached five miles and three quarters from Penrith.	 It has been recommended, that, in order to see the lower part of Ulles Water to advantage, the Westmorland margin should be traversed for three or four miles; a boat might be in readiness to convey the stranger across the lake to the road usually taken.	 On Right From Penrith.	 From Ambles.	 Penrith.	 From Penrith.	 On Left From Penrith.		 23 ¼ Pursue the Keswick road for two miles.	 1 ¼ Skirsgill, Mrs Parkin.	 Road to Keswick 22 ½ 2 Dalemain Park.		 Dalemain , E.W. Hasell, Esq.	 Waterbot, Col. Salmond.		 cr. the Dacre Dunmallet, upon which stood a Roman fort.	 To reach Pooley Bridge a quarter of a mile distant at the foot of the lake, a turn must be made to the left. There are two inns at this place, where post-horses and boats can be obtained. There is a good view of the lake from Dunmallet, a hill near the village.	 18 ¾ Ulles Water.	 5 ¾ This lake is of a serpentine shape, nine miles long, a mile wide, and about 200 feet in extreme depth. It is divided by promontories into three sections, called reaches, of unequal size, the smallest being the highest, and the largest the middle reach. Four small islands adorn the uppermost, the scenery around with is the grandest description.			 Rampsbeck Lodge on the left.			 Road to New Church, so called, in distinction from Old Church, which stood on the margin of the lake. The former was consecrated by Bishop Oglethorpe in 1558, while on his way to crown Queen Elizabeth; an office he had seen to regret having undertaken, when all the other prelates had refused, for he as well as the other Roman Catholic Bishops were shortly afterwards deprived.	 17 Watermillock.	 7 ½ Halsteads, William Marshall, Esq. on a promontory, called Skelley Neb.					 Hallin Fell projects from the opposite shore, and terminates the first reach. Swarth Fell is below Hallin Fell; between the tow, Fusedale Beck enters the lake in the bay termed How Town Wyke.	 This fine park, belonging to Henry Howard, Esq. of Corby, contains upwards of 1000 acres. It is well stocked with deer. At Sandwyke, on the opposite margin, a considerable stream called How Grain enters the lake.	 15 Enter Gowbarrow Park.	 9 ½ In Gowbarrow Park, says Wordsworth, the lover of Nature might linger for hours. Here is a powerful brook, which dashes among rocks through a deep glen hung over every side with a rich and happy intermixture of native wood; here are beds of luxuriant fern, aged hawthorns, and hollies decked with honey suckles; and fallow deer glancing and bounding over the lawns and through the thickets.	Lyulph's Tower, a hunting seat, the property of Mr Howard. There is a splendid view of the lake from the front.
List, ye who pass by Lyulph's Tower At eve; how softly then Doth Aire Force, that torrent hoarse, Speak from the woody glen! Fit music for a solemn vale! And holler seems the ground To him who catches on the gale The spirit of a mournful tale Embodied in the sound. 
 Wordsworth's
 Somnambulist.
	 13 ½ 11 cr. Airey Bridge. Road to Keswick through Matterdale 10 ½ miles.		 A mile above the bridge the stream is precipitated down a fall of eighty feet. Two wooden bridges are thrown across the brook, one above the other, below the fall. The banks are beautifully wooded, and the scenery around the inconceivable magnificence. Birk Fell rises rapidly from the opposite margin.	
 Glencoyn House, an old picturesque farm house belonging to Mr Howard.	 11 ¾ cr. Glencoyn Beck.	 12 ¾ Stybarrow Crag. This rock merely allows room for the road between it and the lake. The dale landers, headed by a Mousey, once made a successful stand against a troop of Scottish mosstroopers at this place. The leader was thereafter styled King of Patterdale, a title borne for many years by his descendants.		 Enter Westmorland.		 A promontory from Birk Fell terminates the second reach. The first island, House Holm.					 Glenridding House, Rev. H. Askew.		 10 ½ cr. Glenridding Beck.	 14 This stream takes its rise in Keppel Cove and Red Tarns, which lie near the summit of Helvellyn. That mountain may be ascended this glen.	 Bilberry Crag. Patterdale Hall.									 Place Fell, with a patch of cultivated ground on which are two farm houses lying at its base, has a striking effect on the opposite shore.	 Patterdale Chapel. In the churchyard is one of the many large yews which grow in this country.		 cr. Grisedale Beck.		 A mountain road, practicable only for horsemen and pedestrians, conducts through Grisedale into Grasmere.		 9 ½ Patterdale vill.	 15 There is a good inn at this place, which, if the Tourist have time, should be made his head quarters for some days, as there is much to see in the neighbourhood.	 The streams from Grisedale and Deepdale join their waters shortly before entering the lake.				 Road into Martindale across the Deepdale Beck.	 St Sunday's Crag.	 8 ¼ cr. Deepdale Beck.	 16 ¼ The road is now through flat meadows on the banks of the stream, to another branch, which flows from Brother's Water.	 Brother's Water, backed by Dove Crags and other activities, clothed with native wood. This small sheet of water is said to take its name from the circumstance of two brothers having been once drowned in it whilst skating.						 6 ½ High Hartsope.	 18 Hartshope Village. Hayes Water, a tarn well known to the angler, lies between High Street and Grey Crag, two miles above Hartsope. Angle Tarn in the same neighbourhood is noted for the superior flavour of its trout.			 Enter the common and climb the pass of Kirkstone.			The summit of the pass is fenced in by the Red Screes on the right, and Woundale Head on the left. The large block of stone
 -- whose Church Like frame Gives to the savage Pass its name-- 
stands on the right of the road. The Romans are supposed to have marched through this depression on their way northwards from the station at Ambleside. Near the summit, a road diverges on the left into the valley of Troutbeck. At the point of deviation, a small inn has lately been erected. In the descent, which is excessively steep, the views of Windermere and the vale of Ambleside are very fine. Wansfell Pike is on the left, Loughrigg Fell on the right of the vale.
	 3 ½ 21	Within the mind strong fancies work, A deep delight! the bosom thrills, Oft as I pass along the fork Of those fraternal hills. Aspiring road! that lov to hide Thy daring in a vapoury bourn; Not seldom may the hour return When though shalt be my guide. ***** Who comes not hither never shall know, How beautiful the vale below; Nor can he guess how lightly leaps The brook adown the rocky steeps. 
 Wordsworth.
			 Ambleside. Inns-- Salutation, Commercial, and White Lion.			
 Xi. Penrith-- Shap-- Kendal, 26 Miles.	 On Right From Penrith.	 From Kendal.	 Penrith.	 From Penrith.	 On Left From Penrith.	 The Vicarage.					 At the corner of the field, at the first lane on the right, beyond Eamont Bridge, is King Arthur's Round Table. A short distance down the lane, on the right, is Mayborough, another relic of the dark ages. The road proceeds through Tirrel and Barton to Pooley Bridge.	 25 cr. Eamont Bridge.	 1 Carleton Hall, John Cowper, Esq.			 Enter Westmorland.		 The Eamont and Lowther are tributaries of the Eden, before entering which they form a junction.		 24 ¾ cr. Lowther Bridge.	 1 ¼ Brougham Hall, the Windsor of the North. In the vicinity is Brougham Castle, a fine ruin, the property of the Earl of Thanet, a descendant from" The stout Lord Cliffords that did fight in France."	 Clifton Hall, a farm-house, an ancient turretted mansion.	 23 ¾ Clifton Vill.	 2 ¼ Here are the gates leading to the Earl of Lonsdale's magnificent Park of 600 acres, and to the Castle.				 Upon Clifton Moor, a skirmish took place in 1745, between the retreating troops of the Pretender and the army under the Duke of Cumberland, in which fifteen were killed on both sides. Mention is made of this incident in Waverley.	 Hackthorpe Hall, also a farmhouse. The birth-place of John first Viscount Lonsdale. The Lowther family have immense possessions in the neighbourhood.	 21 Hackthorpe Vill.	 5 19 Thrimby Vill.	 7 Shap, anciently Heppe, a long straggling village. The remains of an abbey, founded in 1150, are a mile to the west on the banks of the Lowther. Only a tower of the Church is standing, but it appears to have been at one time an extensive structure. A road turns off at Shap to Hawes Water, six miles.	 16 Shap Vill. Inns, Greyhound, King's Arms.	 10 On the south-east of Shap, by the road side, are two lines of unhewn granite, called Lofts. A mile to the north-east of the same village, there is ancient circle of large stones, both these remains are supposed to be of Druidic origin.		 14 Shap Toll Bar.	 12 Wastdale Head, a granitic mountain, from which blocks, of immense size, have been carried, by some extraordinary means, into Lancashire and Staffordshire, in one direction, and to the coast of Yorkshire in another, upwards of 100 miles from the parent rock. In order to enter Yorkshire, they must have been drifted over Stainmoor, 1400 feet in elevation.	 12 Over the elevated moorish tract called Shap Fells.	 14 Shap Spa, a medicinal spring which annually draws a crowd of visitors, is a mile to the east in the midst of the moor. The water is of nearly similar quality to that at Leamington. There is an excellent hotel in the vicinity of the spring.			 Steep descent under Bretherdale Bank to 9 High Borrow Bridge, over the Lune 17 This is the last stage to Kendal.	 Low Bridge House, Richard Fothergill, Esq.	 7 Forest Hall.	 19 Whinfell Beacon, 1500 feet.		 5 21 Hollow through which the Sprint from Longsleddale flows. This narrow and picturesque vale commences near Garnett Bridge, and runs six miles northwards, between steep an rock declivities. A path at its head crosses Gatescarth Pass, having Harter Fell on the left, and Branstree on the right, into Mardale, at the head of Hawes Water.	 Three miles north of Kendal from Otter Bank, a beautiful view of that town, with the Castle Hill on the left, is obtained.					 Mint House, Mrs. Elderton.	 1 cr. Mint Bridge.	 25 Benson Knott, 1098 feet.			 Kendal. Inns, King's Arms, Commercial.	 26 St. George's Church.	
 Xii. London To Lancaster And Carlisle, By Railway, 300 ½ Miles.	 On Right From Lond.	 From Carlisle.		 From London.	 On Left From Lond.			 From London, by N. Western Railway( Trent valley line), to Stafford( p .242).				 168 Thence, by Warrington, to 132 ½ Junction of lines from Birmingham, 29 ¼ m, and Shrewsbury, 29 miles.	 To Manchester, 16 ¼ m.	 112 ¼ Newton Bridge St. on Liverpool and Manchester line( p. 238.) Thence, by North Union Railway, to 188 ¼ To Liverpool 14 ¾ m.		 111 ½ Golborne St.	 189 Golborne Hall and Haydock Hall, T. Legh, Esq.	 Hindley Hall, Rt. Hon. T. Pemberton Leigh. Ince Hall.				 New Hall, Sir J. Gerard, Bart.	 Haigh Hall, rendered classic by Sir Walter Scott, the ancient seat of Bradshaign family, has descended by marriage to the Earl of Crawfurd and Balcarres. It contains a fine collection of pictures.	 105 ¼ Wigan St.( see p .253) 195 ¼ Winstanley Hall, M. Bankes, Esq. Standish Hall, C. Standish, Esq. 7 m. distant is Lathom House( Lord Skelmersdale), occupying the site of the ancient house, which, under the command of the heroic Countess of Derby, successfully resisted the Parliamentary forces during a siege of 3 months.	 Adlington Hall , R. C. B. Clayton, Esq. Duxbury Hall, W. s. Standish, Esq.	 102 Standish St.	 198 ½ Gillibrand Hall.	 99 ¾ Coppull St.	 200 ¾ Astley Hall, Sir H. B. Hoghton, Bart.	 96 ¼ Euxton.	 204 ¼ Euxton Hall, W. J. Anderton, Esq. Shaw Hall, containing a museum of natural history, and some curious frescoes brought from Herculaneum.		 94 ¼ Leyland St.	 206 ¼ Cuerdon Hall, R. Townley Parker, Esq.	 92 ½ Farrington Gate.	 208 Penwortham Priory, L. Rawstone, Esq. Branch to Fleetwood, 20 miles.		 90 ¼ Preston( see p .254).	 210 ¼ Trenchwood. Ashton Lodge, J. Peder, Esq.	 Barton Lodge.	 85 ½ Broughton St.	 215 Newsham Hall. Myerscough Hall.	 Claughton Hall, T. F. Brockholes, Esq.	 82 ¾ Brock St.	 217 ¾ Myerscough House. Kirkland Hall.	
 Barnacre. Lower Wyersdale. Cleveley.	 80 ¾ Garstang, seated on the bank of the Wyer, which abounds with trout, gudgeon,& c. The church of the parish once belonged to the Abbey of Cockersand. In the vicinity are several cotton factories, and the ruins of Greenhalgh Castle, which the Earl of Derby garrisoned for Charles I. in 1643. It was subsequently dismantled by the Parliament. Pop. of parish 7659.	 219 ¾ 77 ² Scorton St.	 223 cr. River Wyer.		 75 Bay Horse St.	 225 ½ Quernmore, 2 miles.	 73 ¾ Galgate St.	 226 ¾ 69 Lancaster,( See p. 254.) 231 ½ Thence by Lancaster and Carlisle Railway, Forton Lodge. Cockerham Hall. Elle Grange. Thurnham Hall.	 To Hornby, 9 mile. To Ingleton, 18 ½ miles. 2 ½ miles distant. Quernmore Park, and Halton.		 cr. River Lune, by viaduct of 9 arches-- 3 of wood and 6 of stone.		 Ellel Hall. Ashton Hall, Duke of Hamilton and Brandon.		 66 Hest Bank St.	 234 ½ Stodday Lodge.		 65 Bolton Le-Sands St.	 235 ½ 63 ½ Carnforth St.	 237 Yealand Village and Leighton Hall.	 Borwick Hall.						 58 ¼ Burton and Holme St.	 242 ¼ Beetham Village.		 55 ½ Milnthorpe St. cr. Lancaster and Kendal Canal.	 245 Levens Hall, a mansion rich in oak carvings. The gardens are also much admired.					 Sizergh Hall,( W. Strickland, Esq.), the ancient seat of the Stricklands. One apartment in it called the" Queen's Room," is said to have been occupied by Catharine Parr.	 Benson Knott, 1098 feet above the level of the sea.	 50 Kendal Junction. cr. River Mint by viaduct of 6 arches, each 50 feet span.	 250 ½ Here the Kendal and Windermere Railway branches off; Kendal is 2 miles distant, Windermere 10 ¼.		 41 ½ Low Gill St.	 259		
	 37 Tebay and Orton St.	 263 ¼ Alternate embankments, and cuttings in solid granite over Shap Fells. The depth of cutting ranges between 50 and 60 feet, and width at base 30 feet.							 Shap Wells, a saline spa, a few hundred yards from the line after emerging from the cutting.	 3 miles distant, the village and township of Reagill.	 29 ½ Shap St.	 270 ½ One mile distant are the remains of Shap Abbey, which at the time of the dissolution belonged to ancestors of Hogarth the painter.	 Brougham Hall, Lord Brougham, surrounded by fine woods; and Brougham Castle, supposed to occupy the site of a Roman station.	 22 Clifton Moor St. Clifton Moor was the scene of a skirmish between the Royal troops under William, Duke of Cumberland, and those of the Pretender, in 1745.	 278 ½ Lowther Castle, the seat of the Earl of Lonsdale, a splendid modern structure, standing in a park of 800 acres.		 19 ½ cr. River Eamont by viaduct of 5 arches 50 feet in span, and 70 in height.	 280 ½ Great Salkeld, 2 miles from Penrith, Edenhall, Sir G. Musgrave, Bart.					 6 miles north-east of Penrith stands a Druidical circle 350 yards in circumference, formed of 67 stones, some of them 10 feet high, known by the name of Long Meg and her daughters. Long Meg-- an unhewn block of red freestone, 15 feet in circumference and 18 in height-- stands a little apart from the circle.	 17 ½ Penrith St. Penrith, an ancient market town. Its church has been rebuilt, but the walls of the old castle remain. The town had a population in 1851 of 6668.	 283 ½ 4 miles north-west of Penrith, Greystoke Castle, H. Howard, Esq.		 13 Plumpton St.	 287 ½ Hutton Hall, Sir H. R. F. Vane, Bart.		 7 Southwaite St.	 293 ½ Wreay Village.	 Newbiggen Hall, H. A. Aglionby, Esq.	 3 Brisco St.	 297 ½ Upperby Village and ch.	 Railway to Newcastle, and 4 miles distant Corby Castle , P. H. Howard, Esq.		 Carlisle.	 300 ½ Railway to Maryport.	
 See Introduction to Scott's" Betrothed," pp. 8-10.
Wigan is an ancient town, situated near the little River Douglas, on the banks of which the Saxons were defeated by King Arthur. It is noted for its manufacture of cotton goods, and its large brass and pewter works. The vicinity also abounds with cannel coal. Wigan has two churches, of which All Saints is old, and contains tombs of the Bradshaigh family, ancestors of the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres. It has also a town-hall, several dissenting chapels and meeting houses, free blue coat and national schools, and various literary and charitable institutions. There is a monumental pillar here in honour of Sir T. Tyldesley, who was killed at the battle of Wigan Lane, in 1651, when the Royalists under the Earl of Derby were routed by Colonel Lilburne. Wigan was visited by the Pretender in 1745. In the vicinity is a sulphurous spring, with a neat building for the accommodation of visitors. Two M. P. Pop. 1851, 31,941.
 Some interesting traditions regarding Wigan are recorded by Mr Roby in his" Traditions of Lancashire." A small volume on similar subjects by a young author of great promise has also been recently published at Wigan. See also Introduction to Scott's" Betrothed," pp. 8-10.
Preston is a town of great antiquity, on the north bank of the Ribble. There were formerly two monastic institutions in Preston, one called the Hospital of St Mary Magdalene, the other a monastery of Greyfriars. The last was occupied as a prison until about fifty years ago, and traces of it yet remain. During the civil wars Preston was first occupied by the Royal Party, but was quickly taken by the Parliamentary forces, and the mayor killed in the assault. It was afterwards retaken by the Earl of Derby, who demolished the defences. At Ribbleton Moor, near Preston, the Duke of Hamilton was defeated, in 1648, by Cromwell; and, in 1715, the friends of the Pretender were routed by Generals Willes and Carpenter at the same spot. Preston contains five churchs and one chapel, belonging to the Established Church, and numerous chapels belonging to dissenting bodies. It was also a guild-hall, a town-hall, a corn exchange, a cloth and market-hall, assembly rooms, a theatre,& c. What are called the" Guilds" of Present are held every twenty years, when the trades meet with banners and music, form a procession, and hold a jubilee at considerable cost to the town. Preston is well provided with schools of all descriptions. About 10,000 Sunday scholars are graciously educated. Preston is a port-- vessels of 150 tons ascending nearly to the town, and the customs duties amounted in 1850 to L. 75,295: 8; 6. Sir Richard Arkwright was born at Preston in 1732; and here, in 1768, he commenced, in connection with a mechanic named John Kay, some of his improvements in the cotton-spinning mechanism. The chief manufacture is cotton, but there is also a good deal of flax-spinning executed here. Two M.P. Pop. of borough, 1851, 69,542.
The N. Western Railway connects Preston with all parts of the empire, and a line 20 miles in length, connects it with the mouth of the Wyre, where is situated the new watering-place of Fleetwood, with an excellent hotel, erected by Sir P. H. Fleetwood, Bart. As a bathing-place it possesses very superior attractions. Pop. 1851, 3048. From Preston a canal leads to Kendal, through Lancaster.
Lancaster is situated on the Lune, at some distance from its entrance into the sea. The principal object is the castle, a strong fortress, erected in the reign of Edward Iii. by John of Gaunt. It stands upon the summit of a hill, and forms a very striking feature in the general view of the town. It is now converted into the county gaol. The county courts now attached to this venerable building are chiefly of a modern date, and are extremely commodious. On the north of the castle stands St Marys, the old church, which is later English, and contains carved stalls, screens, and monuments. A town-hall, lunatic asylum, theatre, assembly rooms, several alms-houses and an excellent grammar-school are among the other public buildings of the town. Lancaster has a considerable trade, the river being navigable( though with difficulty) for vessels of between 200 and 300 tons. Cotton and hardware manufactures constitute the principal exports. A large trade in coal and limestone is carried on by means of the canal, which is carried over the Lune by an aqueduct erected in 1797, at an expense of L. 48,000. Lancaster affords the title of Duke to the Prine of Wales. Two M.P. Pop. 1851, 16,168.
Carlisle is an ancient city, pleasantly situated on an eminence nearly enclosed by three streams, the Eden, the Caldew, and the Peteril. It is supposed to be of British origin, and there is reason to conclude that it was a Roman station. It appears to have been first fortified about the time of Agricola; the erection of its castle is attributed to William Rufus. Carlisle was taken by David, King of Scots, and afterwards besieged unsuccessfully by Robert Bruce in 1312. It suffered severely during the civil wars, having declared for Charles I. In 1745, it surrendered to Prince Charles Stuart, and on being retaken by the Duke of Cumberland, was the scene of many cruel severities upon the conquered. After the junction of the kingdoms it sank into decay, but has made great progress since the commencement of the present century. The principal business of the town consists in its manufactures of cotton goods and ginghams, and in a coasting trade. There is a canal from Carlisle to the Solway, and some traffic arises also from its lying on the North Western line of Railway from London to Edinburgh, Glasgow,& c. Before the Reformation, there were several ecclesiastical establishments in the city. It was erected into a see by Henry I. in 1133. Dr Paley was Arch Deacon of Carlisle, and is buried in the cathedral, where a monument has been recently erected to his memory. The cathedral is an ancient building of red freestone, some parts of which are assigned to the Saxon times. It has however suffered much from neglect and the lapse of time, and contains a few monuments of interest. There are numerous other churches in Carlisle, several meeting-houses, a Roman Catholic chapel, a Mechanics' Institute, a theatre, a grammar school founded by Henry Viii. and forty - seven other schools of various kinds. The court-houses were built at an expense of L. 100,000. A considerable portion of the old castle still remains, comprising the keep, a lofty and massive tower, in whihc is a very deep well. The whole has been restored and is a striking feature of the town. Towards the north were the apartments in Mary Queen of Scots was confined on her flight to England, after the battle of Langside. Carlisle gives the title of Earl to a branch of the Howard family. Two M.P. Pop. 1851, 26,310.

