

Holiday Studies Of Wordsworth By Rivers, Woods And Alps. The Wharfe, The Duddon, And The Stelvio Pass. By Rev. F. A. Malleson, M.A., Vicar Of Broughton In-Furness, Author Of" Jesus Christ, His Life And Work"," Acts And Epistles Of St. Paul;" Editor Of" Ruskin's Letters To The Clergy On The Lord's Prayer," Etc. Etc.
Cassel& Company, Limited: London, Paris& Melbourne.
1890.
Dedication. Not alone as homage due to distinguished rank, but much more as a poor( would it were a rich!) tribute to conspicuous, yet modest civic, social and domestic, virtue, and a lofty and dignified patriotism as noble and generous as it is affecting, I dedicate( by permission) to
William, Seventh Duke Of Devonshire , K.G., F.R. s., etc.,
this feeble attempt( associated with other earlier writings) to portray the natural beauties and to record some of the historic memories of one of the ancestral homes and sacred fanes of England.
F. A. Malleson.
Preface.
The present Volume is a small collection of papers written at rather distant intervals, of which the partiality of kind friends has encouraged me to believe that they would not willingly allow them to be lost.
They have therefore been gathered together, by courteous permission of the editors, out of the magazines in which they originally appeared, with the exception of the paper on" Bolton Abbey," written in 1889, which has not been printed before.
The Westmorland Girl died in my own parish in 1872, and the paper so entitled appeared in Sunday at Home in 1873. " Wordsworth and the Duddon"-- the result of a couple of days spent in solitude, pencil in hand, in the beautiful Duddon Valley-- appeared in Good Words in 1883. Considerable additions, however, have been made since then. These three pieces are therefore more or less illustrations of the life and works of a great Poet Laureate. The" Swiss Notes" and the" Stelvio Pass" were written during a sojourn of three weeks at the Baths of Bormio, as English chaplain, in Sept., 1883, and, like the Duddon paper, the latter was entirely written in pencil on the spot, with those grand Alpine scenes before my eyes-- even when I could scarcely hold my pencil for the cold at an elevation of close upon ten thousand feet. The last two papers have appeared in Anglo Austria, a well-conducted magazine, first published in January, 1890, at Meran in Tyrol.
The grateful duty remains of returning sincerest thanks to Lady Louisa Egerton for her most kind and able assistance in the historical portion of the paper on Bolton Abbey, without which assistance the author would scarcely have ventured upon this undertaking; also to the Rev. A. P. Hows, Rector of Bolton Abbey, whose interesting guide book has rendered valuable assistance.
Wordsworth's" Westmorland Girl."

Broughton In Furness and the Duddon-- Sarah Mackereth," The Westmorland Girl"-- Her Beauty and Refinement-- Fading Away-- Unexpected Discovery that she was Wordsworth's Heroine, his" Lamb Deliverer"-- Story of the Deliverance of the Lamb from Drowning-- The Scene by Grasmere Lake-- Primitive Times at Grasmere-- Sarah Tolling the Passing Bell-- Sarah" loved all things great and small"-- Nathaniel Hawthorne at Grasmere-- Passing Away-- Visited by Angels-- Laid at rest in Broughton Churchyard-- Human Interest needed for the True Enjoyment of Beautiful Scenery.
About the month of February, 1872, I received information that a woman in my parish of the humbler class was in a very weak and suffering state. The distance from the vicarage was but five minutes' walk, and I was soon in her neat little cottage. Sarah Davies was but a new-comer into the parish. Her husband had obtained agricultural employment, and he and his wife and two little girls had been settled but a few weeks in a cottage commanding a lovely view, bordering on the Lake country, if not actually part of it. The cottage stood on a gentle elevation. Beneath lay the wide and level estuary of the Duddon, which here spreads into the broad expanse known as the Duddon Sands. Northward appears the opening between the two rocky fells of Bleansley Bank and Stoneside into the richly-wooded, verdure-clad valley of the Duddon, our i > great poet's" Duddon, long-loved Duddon, child of the clouds." To the right, nestling and embosomed between low hills, lies, compact and close, the little whitewashed and slate-roofed town of Broughton In-Furness, with its quaint old church-- some of it older than Furness Abbey-- standing amidst green meadows apart from the town, and the single line of railway sweeping past, till lost in the deep rock cutting, which is crowned by the ancient battlements of Broughton Tower. That noble mountain, Black Combe, rises conspicuously before us over the Duddon Sands at no greater distance than six or seven miles, its gentle slopes and long, sweeping sides contrasting finely with the dark and rugged hollow that descends-- steep, frowning, and inaccessible-- from its majestic summit, and from which it appears to derive its name of Black Combe, which connects it with the Welsh Cwms. Another huge mountain mass rises almost in the same line with Black Combe, at a distance from it of some twelve
" Or Black Combe( dread name, Derived from coulds and storms)."
or thirteen miles in the south-west, Broughton lying nearly between the two. This is Coniston Old Man, with its brother heights, the Dow Crags and Walna Scar, or White Pike. The view is bounded at the farthest south by the sea, and by the puffing chimney-stalks of Barrow and Askam, and the busy furnaces of Millom, where Hodbarrow fuses its mineral wealth; to the north, with a fine contrast, Sarah might daily fix her eyes, with a last lingering, fond gaze, upon her native mountains of Rydal Head, Fairfield, and Kirkstone, rising pale blue in the distance from between the heights that encircle lovely Coniston and Windermere. But external nature, with all her charms, can only occupy the mind in its leisure hours of quiet peace and meditation. The visitor of the sick leaves these thoughts at the door when he enters the sick chamber.
Sarah was a rather tall woman, past her thirty - seventh year, possessing features of singular delicacy and refinement-- quite enough, indeed, to entitle her to be described as beautiful-- even very beautiful. Dark hair of raven blackness, always smoothed and parted with the most perfect neatness, shaded a face now transparently thin, pale, and delicate, but once evidently bright with joy and love and animation; eyes deep and dark, with all a wife's and a mother's beaming softness when she spoke of those who were so dear to her, and from whom she knew well she would soon be called to part for this life. I cannot resist speaking of the singular beauty and refinement of that countenance, chiefly because it reflected the purity and the charity of the heart within.
I generally found her lying, in her snow-white garments, in a room where all was of the same snowy whiteness in its perfect cleanliness. Fair flowers stood in the window; the air of the room was always sweet and pure. Consumption was rapidly wasting her frame away; and a babe was born of her who seemed as if her own life was to be counted by days rather than by weeks. But the quiet confidence of her soul in the peace that trust in Jesus alone can give was never once disturbed during her long and severe trial. In her wonderful calmness and patience she yet asked," Was she patient?" " Did we think she was impatient?" No, indeed; it was evident that Jesus was her stay in the darkest hour.
How full of the truest hope and consolation is this knowledge, which we gain from experience of the death-beds of those who die in the Lord, that when earth is fading away, its ties loosening day by day, and weakness prostrates the body wholly and the mind in part, yet then is felt, with a reality which nothing earthly can equal, that God is supporting our failing strength; that He gives us to see what mortal eyes in the bustle and business of life can only faintly discern; that the Redeemer then seems to be whispering to our innermost heart:" Fear not, for I am with thee; I have called thee by thy name; thou art Mine. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour."
Of my interviews with Sarah I have no long and interesting conversations to record. It is very rarely, if ever, that in cottage life one meets with piety that is able to express its feelings in many words. For the most part, our intercourse consisted of quiet conversations, in which I bore, indeed, the principal part, but for which she supplied the matter by words, few but full of feeling. Especially, she would frequently assure me of her happiness in leaving all to her Heavenly Father, and her dark eyes would then light up with a more than earthly radiance.
Once we were talking of Grasmere, her native place, when, turning her head quickly towards me, she said," Did you know Mr. Wordsworth, sir?" I told her that I had only seen him two or three times, but had never spoken to him, and was not acquainted with him. " I knew him very well, sir," she added;" he was a very nice and kind old gentleman, with white hair, and he used to pat me on the head. He wrote a poem about me." " Indeed," said I;" and what is the poem called?" " It is called' The Westmorland Girl,'" she replied," and it was about my getting a lamb out of a beck." And, as she spoke, her pale, delicate features lighted up with enthusiasm at the remembrance.
There had been a heavy fall of rain, she said; the streams were greatly swollen. A distressed and forsaken lamb had been left on one side of this dividing torrent by its mother, which had strayed away across it. Trying to follow, it had fallen in, and immediately the hungry waves whirled the poor creature away, and tumbling it over loose stones, and tossing it from bank to bank, would soon have carried it, drowned, into the lake had not little Sarah Mackereth, then only nine years old, plunged boldly in and caught the poor lamb in her little arms. " We were rolled over and over," said she( suiting the action to the word by making her arms to revolve rapidly round each other);" but I got it safely out at last." I asked her if she was not frightened and hurt; but she laughed in her quiet, cheerful way, and said," Not at all; and my clothes were soon dry again."
The poem in which Wordsworth commemorated this act is not so well known as many others of the poet's works. It was one of his latest productions, when many collected editions of his works had already been published, and is found in Moxon's Popular Edition( 1869):--
" Let who will delight in fable, I shall tell you truth. A lamb Leapt from this steep bank to follow' Cross the brook its thoughtless dam.
" Far and wide, on hill and valley, Rain had fallen, unceasing rain, And the bleating mother's young one Struggled with the flood in vain:
" But, as chanced, a cottage maiden( Ten years scarcely had she told) Seeing, plunged into the torrent, Clasped the lamb and kept her hold.
" Whirled adown the rocky channel, Sinking, rising, on they go, Peace and rest, as seems, before them Only in the lake below.
" Oh! it was a frightful current Whose fierce wrath the girl had braved; Clap your hands with joy, my hearers, Shout in triumph; both are saved."A few days ago I visited the scene of this courageous deed. The Mackereths' cottage is called the Wyke Cottage; it stands on the north side of the road that leads from Grasmere to Langdale, about half a mile from the church. It is a very small, stone-built cottage, with one of those round chimneys which form such a pretty feature of the houses in that district. A tall yew and a Scotch fir rise very high above it. Behind rise the shining steeps of Silver How, from which, down a rocky fell, rich in underwood and ferns and flowers, rushes the noisy and impetuous torrent which had so nearly carried into the lake our little Westmorland maiden. The stream is not wide, but, when full, it is deep, and full of rugged boulders. Here dwelt the Mackereths-- parish clerks for some generations; but, at an earlier period, one or more of them were" priests." This is the name still given to the clergyman in these parts by most of the old people; it is doubtless a relic of pre-Reformation times. In those earlier days, in the Lake district, when a vacancy fell in a living, a successor was not fetched from some unknown distance; some grave and clerkly man from the same dale would serve their turn, who laboured both as minister and schoolmaster, perhaps all in one building-- the parish church. Such was the origin of Robert Walker, so well known as" Wonderful Walker," for sixty years minister of Seathwaite Chapel and parish schoolmaster, and very frequently a day-labourer, working for hire for his own parishioners. He was born in the little cottage-farm of Undercrag, in his own Seathwaite, which is the next parish to the north of this parish of Broughton In-Furness. It has been remarked to me, by those who have long known them, that there has always been a certain refinement, a superior nature, that has distinguished the members of the Mackereth family. They may be truly called" the gentry of the soil"-- noble examples of simple and pure native excellence, owing little to education, little to intercourse with those who move in the higher ranks of life. They retain the rustic simplicity, they practise the untutored and artless courtesy which we love to imagine, but do not often discover, in the English peasant life.
 See the next paper," Wordsworth and the Duddon."
Little Sarah early lost her mother. To her worthy father she was most devoted. Her love for him was deep and intense. No labour was too great to lighten her dear father's toils, or relieve him from attendance upon such of his duties as she was able to fulfil. Thus, many a time she tolled the church bell for her father; and, at the request of an aged gentleman of Grasmere, after his death she tolled the passing bell every day for him until his body was committed to the grave. This was a service in excess of what he had asked, for he had only requested her to toll the bell on the day of his funeral; but her zeal led her to do more. This circumstance is referred to in the second part of the poem.
One other occurrence is mentioned. So great was her feeling for all living creatures, that she would never endure to see them made to suffer unnecessarily. A gentleman was fishing in Grasmere Lake. Our little maiden stood by watching or helping. He does not seem to have gained her confidence, for, having caught a large pike, and cruelly thrusting a stick repeatedly down its throat with a wicked pleasure in its writhing and agony, the brave little creature, with indignation kindling in her lovely countenance, snatched it from him, and flung it far away into the lake, fearless of his anger, careless of the consequences.
These little traits of character, the historical accuracy of which I vouch for on the authority of those who knew and loved well the bard and his" little lamb-deliverer," are embodied in the second part of the poem, of which the following are the concluding verses:--
" Listen yet awhile;-- with patience Hear the homely truths I tell; She in Grasmere's old church steeple Tolled this day the passing bell.
" Yes, the wild girl of the mountains To their echoes gave the sound, Notice punctual as the minute, Warning solemn and profound.
" She, fulfilling her sire's office, Rang alone the far-heard knell-- Tribute, by her hand, in sorrow, Paid to one who loved her well.
" When his spirit was departed, On that service she went forth; Nor will fail the like to render When his corse is laid in earth.
" What then wants the child to temper In her breast unruly fire, To control the froward impulse, And restrain the vague desire?
" Early a pious training, And a steadfast outward power, Would supplant the weeds, and cherish In their stead each opening flower.
" Thus the fearless lamb-deliverer, Woman Grown, meek-hearted, sage, May become a blest example For her sex of every age.
" Watchful as a wheeling eagle, Constant as a soaring lark, Should the country need a heroine, She might prove our Maid of Arc.
" Leave that thought; and here be uttered Prayer that grace Divine may raise Her humane, courageous spirit Up to heaven, through peaceful ways."In Nathaniel Hawthorne's" English Note Book" we find that he met at Grasmere Church with one of the Mackereths, and heard about the poem without being able to call the circumstances of it to mind. I do not doubt that if he had known more about it, we should have some entertaining gossip on the subject. The following is his account in 1855:--
" I have been again to see Wordsworth's grave, and, finding the door of the church open, we went in. A woman and little girl were sweeping at the farther end, and the woman came towards us out of the cloud of dust which she had raised. . . . She was a very intelligent-looking person, not of the usual English ruddiness, but rather thin and somewhat pale, though bright of aspect. Her way of talking was very agreeable. She inquired if we wished to see Wordsworth's monument, and at once showed it to us-- a slab of white marble fixed against the upper end of the centre row of stone arches, with a pretty long inscription, and a profile bust, in bas-relief, of his aged countenance. . . . The woman said that she had known him very well, and that he had made some verses on a sister of hers. She repeated the first lines-- something about a lamb-- but neither s-- nor I remembered them."
I read the poem to her and her husband one calm summer evening. He had never heard it; she, I think, not more than once. Her placid gaze rested on her husband's countenance, to see how it would affect him; for she loved him faithfully. He was" not one of those rough, wicked men," she once said to me.
I feel the more pleasure in bringing this touching poem before a wider circle of thoughtful readers, because it furnishes, as I think, an illustration of a fact grateful to the Christian-- that Wordsworth, in the latter years of his calm, happy, and peaceful life, enjoyed more deeply than in early and middle life the blessedness and peace of a closer walk with God. Witness, for instance, the solemn stillness and the deep faith in all Divine things that breathes through the" Evening Voluntaries." Not that at any time his faith and confidence were in any danger of becoming loosed from their moorings, but that in him peculiarly the mellowing flow of years brought with it a surer trust, a deeper realisation of the blessedness of a soul at peace with God, through the Redeemer's merits; so that his peaceful old age was like to what we sometimes witness in the lovely evenings which shed such a richness of glory over his beloved vales-- a sunset without a cloud.
Such, too, was Sarah Davies's departure. The difference between her entrance upon a better world and his consisted in nothing more than the mere power of expression. In her, no less than in the poet, there was patience under suffering, mingled with joy at the prospect of release from the flesh and heaven opening. Both knew and felt equally the noble declaration of faith and immortality:" When Thou hadst overcome the sharpness of death, Thou didst open the kingdom of heaven to all believers." But poor Sarah could only look her firm belief with her eyes, and express it in words few and simple, though strong with all the fulness of her heart.
Before me hangs still the set of hymns for the sick and suffering which I had hung by her bedside, and every day the hymn for that day was placed before her. It lies open at xxix., and she died on the 1st September. She read them, therefore, up to the last day that she was able. Great comfort did she receive from these well-chosen hymns.
She received at my hands the Holy Communion, with her husband. There was in her countenance a sweet and holy calm that recalled none of her early animation. It was the rich, deep glow of heavenly light that kindles in the face of the true believer, and marks unmistakably to the minister of God that here is one sealed for heaven, saved and redeemed from the power of the grave. What proved to be my last interview with this dear child of God, I did not think would be my last. Some clerical business took me to Carlisle, and in my absence she passed gently away-- the gentle, loving spirit returned to Him that gave it.
On her last day upon earth her sister entered the room. Sarah said," Did Davies tell you?" " Tell me what?" " Did he really not tell you? It is very strange. Well, I have seen angels. They came to fetch me. I saw them plainly; I could not be mistaken." Blessed spirit of the departed, thou knowest now whether it were indeed a vision from heaven!
Sarah sleeps in the quiet churchyard of Broughton In-Furness. The mountains of her native land look down from afar upon her resting-place; the distant murmur of Duddon may often be heard in deeper contrast to the stillness of the scene. The prayer of the Christian poet has been heard. His spirit seemed to her minister to mingle with his own as he bent over her fair but fading countenance in fervent prayer and thanksgiving. The wayward but brave and loving girl had grown to womanhood. The country had not called to her for aid, or she would not have been wanting at its call. No Joan of Arc was she, but one whom it was always a joy and a comfort to see-- a crown to her husband, the glory of her children. " Her children shall arise and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her."
Tourists will flock still to Grasmere to stay, or to pass that fairest gem of English scenery, and be delighted, as every one must be who has the faintest touch of a feeling of love and admiration for the lovely creation of God; and many, starting in their walk, with elastic tread and chest expanding with the conscious glow of strength and spirits, for Elterwater, Langdale, or Coniston, will leave behind that humblest little cottage sheltered at the foot of Silver How; and will they not now, perhaps, bestow a passing thought on the child that dwelt in that lowly cot, whose grace and courage won for her a prouder and more lasting distinction far than could have been conferred by medals and ribands? After all, there is nothing like a little human interest to impart an added charm to natural scenery. You pass through Grasmere, Rydal, Ambleside, and you speak to none but landlords and landladies, waiters and chambermaids, and you lose the first element that brings you akin to the place and attaches you to it lastingly. It is not in these sweet vales as in the islands of the south, where the" spicy breezes blow,"--
" Where every prospect pleases, And only man is vile."
Although our dalespeople may not now be distinguished by all the primitive simplicity in which the first educated and polished settlers found them some seventy years ago, yet there is still, for all who love quiet and simple worth, abundance of the true metal still to reward him who seeks for it in the spirit of" charity out of a pure heart."
Wordsworth And The Duddon.

Duddon Sonnets-- A Two Days' solitary Visit to the Duddon Valley in September, 1882-- Seathwaite Tarn-- Birks Brigg and Gowdrel Dub-- Glittering Transparency of the Water-- Cockley Beck-- Division of the Valley-- Hardknot and Wrynose-- Wild Deer-- Three Shire Stones-- Source of the Duddon-- Dioptrics of a running Brook-- Varieties of Effects in a Mountainous Country-- Coming down to the Pastures and the Farms-- Seathwaite Church-- Rev. Robert Walker" The Wonderful"-- Original Information-- Stepping Stones-- Wallabarrow Crag-- The Red Felsite Dike-- Ulpha Kirk-- Dunnerdale Fells-- Duddon Woods-- Duddon Hall-- Rowfold Bridge-- Flowering Plants and Ferns-- Buckbarrow Volcanic Crags-- If England were subject to Volcanic Eruptions? -- Glacier Polished Rocks-- A Day with Ruskin at the Weathered Rocks of Goat's Water-- Ruskin's Confession of Faith in Christianity in" Praeterita"-- Duddon Bridge and Duddon Sands.
Seated beside a rugged, shattered, and confused mass of rock crowning the high ridge that overlooks Birks Farm and Birks Bridge, the rich hues of advancing autumn throwing golden reflections upon the green patches of verdure that spread a glory over fell and valley, I here command a first view of the glowing scenery of the" Duddon Sonnets," consecrated by the genius of Wordsworth, one of the three or four truly great poets to whom England has given birth.
Here I have chosen to commence my lonely contemplative visit to the higher Duddon Valley, descending into it exactly opposite the point from which Wordsworth himself recommended an entrance into the valley as the loveliest of all, at the descent from Seathwaite Tarn.
From my elevated vantage-ground, as I look north, the eye rests on the dreary wastes of Wrynose, which the dalespeople call Wreyness, extending far away towards the distant source of the Duddon. To my left the golden browns and the yet unfaded greens mingle harmoniously upon the nearer fell-side, and there above comes tumbling down in a silvery broken stream of flashing light the beck that issues from Seathwaite Tarn with a roar which I can hear at a distance of half a mile; while Grey Friars, the Old Man, the Dow Crags, and Walna Scar stretch in broken continuity from the north-east to the south. At my left is the scarped and craggy ridge of Harter Fell, roughly terraced with rugged slopes broken with patches of brightest verdure, on which those active mountaineers, the Herdwick sheep, are quietly browsing.
Below, the sweet green valley lies soberly gay with the soft, subdued shining of a sun that struggles to get free from the clouds of silvery grey, and there winds, with many a devious reach, the vocal stream of Duddon. Just below lies the peaceful farm called Birks, where I know I shall presently receive a kindly welcome before I visit the far-famed Birks Brigg and Gowdrel Dub, which, being very near, I propose, though down stream, to visit at the same time with Birks Brigg before I proceed farther north. And now
" I seek the birthplace of a native stream-- All hail, ye mountains! hail, thou morning light! Better to breathe at large on this clear height Than toil in heedless sleep from dream to dream: Pure flow the verse, pure, vigorous, free, and bright, For Duddon, long-loved Duddon, is my theme!"
From the plain little old farmhouse you descend through green pastures to the swamp, when suddenly, as you approach the river, which has been coming down the dale so far leisurely enough, and in a commonplace way, you become aware of a sudden change. From sedgy banks varied with the aromatic bog-myrtle, the golden bog-asphodel, now out of flower, the rosy red-rattle, and the milk-white green-veined parnassia, the river plunges in haste among wave-washed rocks and boulders, scooped into fantastic shapes, whitened with the weather and the water, then passes on for a few yards through a deep, dark chasm between perpendicular rocks, cleft with gloomy fissures, deeper and deeper, narrower and more narrow, not, at any rate to-day, without hurry to a black pit some twenty feet deep, spanned aloft by one narrow arch; and here an exclamation of surprise spontaneously bursts forth even from a solitary wanderer as he gazes down with astonishment into the intense transparency of the emerald green of that pellucid pool, where now the water lags lazily along, only indicating the sluggishness of its movement by the gentle wafting of small discs of white foam brought from the fall close by. Whence this dazzling and most marvellous glassy greenness, reminding one of the blue beryl-like transparency of the deep mill-pond on the chalk in Arundel Park? The polished slabs of rock that line the bottom, and would no doubt be white if laid on the land, lie below as green as the emerald cushions of moss that make gay the trickling rocks above. Perhaps none can accurately explain the physical cause.
This is Wordsworth's Faery chasm:--
" Abodes of naiads, calm abysses pure, Bright liquid mansions, fashioned to endure When the broad oak drops, a leafless skeleton, And the solidities of mortal pride, Palace and tower, are crumbled into dust!"
Peering rather perilously over the edge, the deafening roar of the torrent causing an involuntary tremor, I see the lofty crags riven with deep, dark fissures, where neither moss nor humblest fern can grow; buttress succeeding buttress, some like the fair white flying buttresses of Gloucester Cathedral, all curved and hollowed out by the foaming torrents into a hundred weird, fantastic shapes. Here one starts at the unexpected sight of a colossal foot and leg of stone, from the knee downwards, dipping suspended in the stream, formed by the wearing away of the rock of volcanic ash. The resemblance is wonderful, making it an object of curiosity to both dalesfolk and visitors.
Charming contrast! Through the arch I see the clear, transparent, glassy pool kissed by the nodding alders, and kindled into life by the fiery red of a low mountain-ash in all her autumn bravery.
There are very strange freaks of rockwork down this part of Duddon. Here is a huge and exactly square column of stone forty feet high, leaning unattached against the ferny bank, ten feet of it rising above the ground. It is cleft straight halfway down the middle with a clean fissure, with corresponding sides, as if the fracture had been a sudden one. The opposite bank is grand with vertical rocks richly clothed with verdure. But the lover of Nature who wants to hunt out these hidden beauties must leave the valley road and roam and climb at liberty.
A very little way farther down the stream, just opposite Troutal, is Gowdrel Dub. Dub means a silent pool beloved of silvery salmon, but Gowdrel is not, as some suppose, the golden rill, for nowhere in Furness is a stream of water ever called a rill, but a beck, the same as the German bach. Gowdrel is the name of the rough pasture that lies before it. Down comes hither the stripling Duddon in a tremendous hurry through his deep worn channel, as though he thought it was high time to be moving on after sleeping so long in Birks Dub; and so he sweeps on by vast square blocks that have fallen from the opposite cliff, where you may easily see the corresponding cavities, past rugged boulders and nodding sedges, past rushy banks and masses of ash, and dwarf oak, and birch, when suddenly down he comes again with a heavy fall," like a broken purpose," into a dark and deeply ramparted pool, where at once he goes to sleep, the water apparently ceasing to move, the soft, green, liquid transparency reappearing, as of late, in the limpid waters, and the bottom lined with smooth and polished rocks of lucid green, like the emerald banks. For a sweet little bit of gemlike mountain scenery, Gowdrel Dub is unsurpassable. See it if you can alone, or if with a friend, agree to leave behind all talk of business and the noisy, whirling world. Such converse here is out of place and against the grain. Here are sweet sprigs of purple heather at my feet that have rejoiced no eyes but those of a wandering vicar.
" Sole listener, Duddon! to the breeze that played With thy dear voice, I caught the fitful sound Wafted over sullen moss and craggy mound,-- Unfruitful solitudes, that seemed to upbraid The sun in heaven!-- but now, to form a shade For Thee, green alders have together wound Their foliage; ashes flung their arms around; And birch-trees risen in silver colonnade."
So the heather sprigs have bloomed for me. May they not have bloomed in vain! Some days we live that do the work of years; some hours there are that tinge a life. It is not given to every one to reap life-long enjoyment from the mere sight of a field of daffodils dancing in the sunlight; but what is Wordsworth's moral?
" For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, 
They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude, And then my heart with pleasure fills, And dances with the daffodils."
This September sky supplies the most perfect light for the dale. The atmosphere seems refined into a crystalline clearness and purity; the colouring is richer, tenderer, and more sweetly blended and harmonised. The bright green pastures are softly dappled over with shadows dropped from gently moving clouds; shadows that lie long in spots fixed and unmoved, with steady beams of quiet pleasant sunshine interposed. The glancing torrents scaur the mountain sides with streaks of glistening sheen. Here the isolated rock called Castle How looms dark and frowning, there the sweet pastures smile bright with the autumn after-grass; and amidst them all glide the" trotting brooks" and chattering becks, and the babbling and brawling companion of my walk, the young Duddon ever running by my side and ever telling me of his busily-idle, never-ending life, and flashing merrily back the rays of sunlight that so liberally steep his waves in gems of purest light. Wordsworth observes that the influence of this season in the dale of the Duddon is, that in it" the imagination, by the aid of natural scenery, is carried into recesses of feeling otherwise unattainable."
Farther up the valley, opposite Dalehead, and below Black Hall, are stepping-stones; but these are not the poet's far-famed stepping-stones; we shall cross these much lower down, below Seathwaite.
But here is Cockley Beck at last, Lancashire's Ultima Thule, the last vestige of human habitation for a very long way to come; for here the dale divides, and the lonely farm stands at the meeting of three mountain roads.
Here I have said the road divides right and left. The rough road to the left will take you over Hardknot Pass into verdant smiling Eskdale. " Hardknot Castle," a shapeless and barely distinguishable ruin, may be discerned by a careful eye crowning the height on the right hand.
" Fallen, and diffused into a shapeless heap, Or quietly self-buried in earth's mould, 
Is that embattled House, whose massy keep Flung from yon cliff a shadow large and cold. There dwelt the gay, the beautiful, the bold, Till mighty lamentations, like the sweep Of winds-- though winds were silent-- struck a deep And lasting terror through that ancient Hold. Its line of warriors fled;-- they shrunk when tried By ghostly power;-- but Time's unsparing hand Hath plucked such foes, like weeds, from out the land; And now, if men with men in peace abide, All other strength the weakest may withstand, All worse assaults may safely be defied."
Here, at Cockley Beck, I shall find hospitable quarters for the night, with the perfection of homely rustic simplicity; and while my simple supper is preparing, I stroll in the softened light of the declining sun up the dreary, treeless valley whence the Duddon," child of the clouds," derives its birth.
" To chant thy birth, thou hast No meaner poet than the whistling blast, And Desolation is thy patron saint! She guards thee, ruthless power! who would not spare Those mighty forests, once the bison's screen, Where stalked the huge deer to his shaggy lair Through paths and alleys roofed with darkest green, Thousands of years before the silent air Was pierced by whizzing shaft of hunter keen!"
Grandly antlered heads of these noble extinct animals are often found in the sands of the estuary, sometimes in quantities together. On Bleansley Bank, near Broughton, are ancient square enclosures, now almost levelled with the turf, which are generally believed to have been used for driving the red deer into. There are yet survivors of the primitive red deer in the lonely wilds of Martindale; and up to the last century they still herded in Eskdale and Wastdale. One may regret the disappearance of these fine animals on sentimental grounds; but I have been told by old farmers of the destruction they worked in rick-yards and among the young corn, so that it was impossible to tolerate them any longer. An old lady has told me how, when she was a girl in Martindale, she was employed in keeping off the fierce red deer from robbing the sheep of their winter fodder.
Duddon springs up above there on Wrynose Gap in a swampy tableland, the watershed between the cheerful, happy-looking valley of Langdale and the vale of Duddon, not many yards intervening between the sources of the Brathay and of our Duddon. The famous Three Shire Stones preside at the birth of both, where without any great extension of the person one may lie at the same moment in the three counties of Lancashire, Westmoreland, and Cumberland. For if the Duddon exactly divides Cumberland from Lancashire, the sod next beyond the source must be in Westmoreland.
There amid cloud and storm, and desolation vast and drear, the infant Duddon begins his course with slow uncertain step. Many streams tumbling down the amphitheatre of dark hillsides join the main current which, when it reaches the bottom of the treeless waste of Wrynose Bottom, is already a rapid, clamorous stream commencing its endless war of stones and waters.
" No check, no stay this streamlet fears, How merrily it goes!' Twill murmur on a thousand years, And flow as now it flows."
The morning after breaks with a pure and pearly light, and I take a kindly farewell of my pleasant entertainers. How we glory while we gaze! Glory in all creation, bountiful, infinitely beautiful, teeming with objects sublime and majestic or minutely lovely, which create thoughts too deep for utterance.
Seeing is happiness without the labour of reflection; and we feel that we are commencing
" One of those heavenly days that cannot die."
 For the rain is very plentiful here, over 100 inches in a year.
What marvellous and incredible effects are produced by the play and combination of the changeful atmospheric light upon running waters! Here runneth a brook, only a yard wide, flowing with great rapidity after last night's copious rain. I am drawn aside to gaze at the liquid lapse of shining waters by the strange spectacle of an intense and brilliant opal light within of mingling prismatic and iridescent hues of violet and purple, azure blue and malachite-greens, with amber yellow, harmoniously blended with shining russet browns. I stop to ascertain what can be the cause of this new phenomenon. What can compose the streamlet's bed that rolls with hues so strange and fairy-like? And I see with surprise merely the long and waving tresses of bedded water-grass and pond-weed, washed into graceful motion by the impetuous limpid stream, whose light is blended with reflections from the flower-spangled bank, from a low green mossy wall, and from a sky struggling between sunshine and cloud. These alone, with dioptric laws of which no account can be rendered, combine to produce an unusual metallic lustre such as I never saw before, except faintly imitated in imaginative pictures of fairy-land, not ever expect to see again. It is" that light that never shone over land or sea."
Perhaps the most remarkable advantage, in an artistic point of view, which we possess in the Lake district, is the ever-shifting and changeful character of the scenery. We have the same physical features continually before our eyes under perpetually varying effects of light and shadow, running through all imaginable shades that are possible in Nature, from bright celestial blue, and green like that of emeralds, to purple bathed in rose, and ending for a while in the darkest hues. I have seen Black Combe mantled in snow on a bright winter's morning at sunrise, royally clothed in alpine hues of rose and pink and violet and gold, shining with the brilliancy of the diamond. From Helvellyn I have seen, after a rainy morning, Ullswater lying mapped below of an ultramarine of incredible brilliancy, and all the rolling ocean of mountains, valleys, and plains beyond bathed in crystalline cerulean blue; but encompassed in a frame of vast black precipices which seemed to be steeped in night, while a heavenly light smiled upon all the rest of the scene.
Here each grey and slate-roofed humble tenement is half - hidden in its setting of sycamore-trees, and is encompassed by its little farm of twelve to twenty acres of green pasture; and you long to bid good morning to the quiet and honest folk that dwell in them; and they are glad if you do, and will talk with you as long as you like, for they see very few strangers passing up and down this dale. Then comes the wild fell again; then another ancient cottage, but perhaps whitewashed this time, till you come to the" open prospect," where they lie scattered over a wider tract. About a mile from Seathwaite Church,
" Hail to the Fields-- with dwellings sprinkled over, And one small hamlet, under a green hill Clustering, with barn and byre, and spouting mill! A glance suffices."
Here the narrow dale opens out, and the rural valley spreads before us, green and charming. The farms, instead of being separated by wild bits of fell land, are only divided from each other by dimpling becks and moss-grown fences. Behind Tongue House you see a mountain-path climbing to Seathwaite Tarn, a lonely sheet of water lying 1,210 feet high, yet bosomed deep beneath Grey Friar and the Old Man, with their outlying buttresses. It is a favourite spot for a picnic for the neighbouring gentry and their friends. Fifty will sometimes gather here for a merry day. The tarn is drawn, the trout and char come in by hundreds, and are cooked on the spot in some fissure of the rocks, and never any sauce is asked for but the keen appetite engendered by the ozone in the mountain air. This elevated glen is full of interest to the geologist, with its moraines, its blocs perchés, and its accumulations of boulders, where the ice last melted after the glacial period.
" Thy church and cottages of mountain stone, Clustered like stars some few, but singly some, And lurking dimly in their shy retreats, Or glancing at each other's cheerful looks, Like separated stars with clouds between." 
 ( See Knight's" Wordworth," p. 42)
It is the weathering of innumerable ages which has produced these manifold fantastic forms of rock, and caused the downfall and the mysterious distribution of vast detached blocks, which have lain for centuries resting upon, or lying against, each other, the erratic boulders weathering with age to a creamy whiteness.
But here are, a short way apart, two venerable grey cottages, each nestling under its own steep rude crag. The first is Nettleslack, which is deserted, though not entirely ruined; the other is called Undercrag, and is in excellent repair, and inhabited by Joseph Walker-- some descendant( though I was told the kindred is" worn out") of Walker" The Wonderful." In which of these cottages the venerable pastor of Seathwaite was born is uncertain among the dalespeople, though the guide-books and local histories pronounce without hesitation for Undercrag.
As I pass the new chapel of Seathwaite( sprung up fresh and beautiful from the very site of its revered predecessor), I bow my head in deep and heartfelt respect for the venerable pastor, whose name is still( 1883) here held in honour and regard after the eighty years since he exchanged his rustic wreath of honest fame for an incorruptible crown of glory.
" Sacred Religion!' mother of form and fear,' Dread arbitress of mutable respect, New rites ordaining when the old are wrecked, Or cease to please the fickle worshipper. Mother of Love!( that name best suits thee here) Mother of Love! In this deep vale, protect Truth's holy lamp, pure source of bright effect, Gifted to purge the vapouring atmosphere That seeks to stifle it;-- as in those days When this low Pile a Gospel Teacher knew, Whose good works formed an endless retinue: A Pastor such as Chaucer's verse portrays; Such as the heaven-taught skill of Herbert drew; And tender Goldsmith crowned with deathless praise."
I will not enter here into the almost legendary history of the Rev. Robert Walker, surnamed" The Wonderful." It has been told so often, in almost precisely the same words, that one is rather tired of hearing the same unvarying tale. So much is certain, that he died in 1802, at the age of ninety - three, having been sixty - seven years incumbent of Seathwaite; and that his wife died in 1800, at the same advanced age. That he was a man of great industry and thrift, and of unsullied honesty and integrity, is also certain, or his successor would not have made in the burial register the remarkable entry:" He was a man singular for his temperance, industry, and integrity."
Before I began personally to inquire into the history of the Rev. Robert Walker, I used to think that surely he must have owed much of his honourable fame to the fortunate circumstance that he had been sung by the first and hitherto the greatest of the laureated poets of England. But it is not so. I am at this moment fresh from a conversation with two venerable ladies( sisters), parishioners of Broughton, who were both baptised by him, and who spent the best portion of a long life in Seathwaite, and they good-humouredly laugh to scorn the idea of Mr. Walker being indebted for his fame to a mere poet. " Oh, no, sir; he was good in every way. We never heard anybody say a word against him."
When he accepted the living of Seathwaite, £ 5 a year, a cottage, and an acre of glebe, with £ 40 by his excellent wife, were all he had to live upon. The £ 40 went to furnish the house, and yet when he died he had to leave to his children the sum of £ 2,000, solely the fruits of honest industry and frugality. There, dwelling amongst his people, he lived and ministered both spiritually and temporally for the space of sixty - seven years to his scattered parishioners, numbering about a hundred and thirty souls, with invariable kindness and fidelity, with the grave dignity becoming his position, and bearing a stainless and perfectly irreproachable character. He brought up a family of eleven children, educated them wholly himself, with his child-parishioners, in the humble little chapel, sitting within the altar-rails, and using the communion-table as his desk. While he taught he was spinning at his wheel. All his scholars( with one of whom, eighty years of age, I conversed twelve years ago) well remember his unvarying kindness and good temper; and he produced such scholars in more than merely
 Those were days of distressing poverty for the country clergy in these northern parts, when" £ 5 a year, goose grass, harden sark( a tough durable shirt), and whittlegate" were all that many of the best of the clergy might look to for a living. " Whittlegate is to have two or three weeks' victuals at each house, according to the ability of the inhabitants, which was settled amongst them so that the parson should go his course as regular as the sun, and complete it as annually. Few houses having more knives than one or two, the pastor was often obliged to buy his own( though sometimes it was bought for him by the chapel wardens), and march from house to house with his whittle seeking fresh pasturage; as master of the herd he demanded the elbow-chair at the table-head, which was often made of part of a hollow ash-tree, as may in these parts be seen at this day. A person was thought a proud fellow in those days that was not content without a fork to his knife; he was reproved for it, and told that fingers were made before forks."--" Survey of the Lakes," by James Clark, land surveyor, 1787. The same authority affirms that some pastors were fortunate enough to obtain a suit of clothes annually from their compassionate parishioners.
Not so that Pair whose youthful spirits dance With prompt emotion, urging them to pass; A sweet confusion checks the shepherd lass; Blushing she eyes the dizzy flood askance; To stop ashamed-- too timid to advance; She ventures once again-- another pause! His outstretched hand he tauntingly withdraws-- She sues for help with piteous utterance! Chidden, she chides again; the thrilling touch Both feel, when he renews the wished-for aid: Ah! if their fluttering hearts should stir too much, Should beat too strongly, both may be betrayed. The frolic Loves, who from yon high rock see The struggle, clap their wings for victory!"
Thus the poet pictures childhood, youth, and age putting their budding or their declining powers to the proof in crossing the rapid river by that hazardous-looking path. Then a youth and a maiden are imagined, the one with provoking playfulness, the other with timid remonstrance, venturing over this most welcome and delightful way of not unpleasant peril. They certainly do require a sure foot and a steady eye who venture across, and I felt glad when I had got safely over. There are seventeen large and well-worn stepping-stones in the stream, which runs swiftly with an ordinary depth of about eighteen inches.
From Seathwaite to Ulpha let the active tourist by no means travel ignominiously in a carriage by the high-road down the valley, but continue his way past the stepping-stones under Wallabarrow, one of the noblest isolated crags in Europe. There he is again rejoined by his noisy, chattering companion, the Duddon, considerably broader, but not one whit steadier, since we saw him last. This is a charming rural walk amongst green pastures and wooded fells, with pleasant-looking farm-houses at intervals.
Here we encounter an interesting geological curiosity. Skirting the stream by a foot-path, we suddenly come upon a section of the river-bed where, for some 150 yards, the water seems to run of a bloody red. In spots up and down the valley, but all in one straight line, a hard rock of a rich red crops out. One in particular, in an elevated position among the woods, stands out conspicuously from a distance, ruddy amidst the green trees. It is a red felsite dike-- a fissure of unknown depth, of volcanic origin, running two miles from Wallabarrow to Troutal, and of only a few yards in width. The river breaking off small fragments, and rolling them down till they become smooth rounded pebbles, gives us those pretty bits of colour we see enlivening the bed of the river at Duddon Bridge, and which also supply the small red boulders that here and there stud the pebble pavements of Broughton.
There is an exceedingly fine reach of the Duddon not far from Ulpha Kirk, where the river runs swiftly between huge bare masses of grey rock, boldly and deeply cleft, arched overhead by trees, and a beautiful little waterfall plunging down from the bank into the river. Here the Osmunda is found superbly tall, and the starry Parnassia beautiful and abundant. The spot is a perfect gem of beauty, and well worth a deviation.
Ulpha Church, called by the older people Oopha Kirk, here dominates the vale--
" The Kirk of Ulpha to the pilgrim's eye Is welcome as a star, that doth present Its shining forehead through the peaceful rent Of a black cloud diffused over half the sky."
Like too many other churches in the district, it was a mouldy, earthy-smelling, squalid, and poverty-stricken rustic place of worship; but has, under a new and active young vicar, been thoroughly emptied of all its grotesque and ungraceful contents, and refurnished with a simple and refined taste; and now it looks just as it should do-- not debased and dirty, but light and clean and neat in every part. The exterior, with the exceptions of a new porch, belfry, and lych-gate, remains exactly as Wordsworth saw it, when he used to meditate in the vale, and stay at the Kirk House, a name often given to the village inn in these parts. The memory of the poet, as a poet, still survives among the aged in the valley, which, as he was born in 1770 and died in 1850, may very well be. An old lady remembers well his kindness to children, and how fond he was of patting them on the head.
Very restful and very charming to the eye and mind is the prospect of this plain and homely little church looking down so peacefully upon the rushing torrent far below, which, for want of anything better to do, has been busy for ages scooping out the great blue-grey rocks in the river-bed into a variety of the strangest forms.
On a stone of the bridge is rudely carved" Watch, 1749," cut, it is said, during a severe visitation of pestilence, when cattle were not allowed to pass out of one county into the next.
The Duddon Sonnets portray no woodland scenes below Ulpha Bridge. But as there is some surpassingly beautiful scenery below that point, we will yet continue our journey. From the bridge the main road leads along the foot of the Dunnerdale Fells to Broughton and to Millom. The scenery, though grand and noble, is bare and wild. In the boggy streams running off these fells is found the great sundew( Drosera anglica), a rare plant. The valley is shut in between imposing rocky crags of a pale grey colour on the Dunnerdale or Lancashire side; on the Cumberland side by the majestic woods of Duddon Hall and the mountain called the Pen, and all the Black Combe range of fells. It must have been with his customary bold defiance of the realistic school that Wordsworth chose to speak of the Plain of Dunnerdale, where of plane country there is none whatever; and being in my own parish, of course I know Dunnerdale and all its snug farms intimately. The name is probably from Duddon dale, as the island of Dunnerholme would be from Duddon holm.
We follow down the stream on the Cumberland side, as containing the most picturesque objects. All this side of the Duddon abounds in the loveliest woodland scenery, which here we survey in quieter mood," soothed by the unseen river's gentle roar." Vast moss-grown fragments of rock or boulders are everywhere overshadowed by beech and fir, by oak and ash; the shady banks are graced with plumy beech-fern, and the darker recesses carpeted with the oak-fern. Every bridge down the river is darkly clad in rue-fern and in maidenhair spleenwort. I know the Cystopteris fragilis growing just where it should do, on a long narrow band of limestone; but not wanting it to be all carried away, I refrain from particularising the spot; and I must be equally reticent about the Hymenophyllum, which covers the boulders in some moist places. The Impatiens is found in abundance in the moist and shady woods. The lily of the valley abounds in a wood not to be entered without leave. The globe flowers make the banks gay. In fact, there are few richer botanical fields than the lower Duddon. In Sonnet Vi. occurs the line--
" The trembling eyebright showed her sapphire blue.".
Would it have spoiled good poetry to have read instead more truly," the bright germander," as Tennyson says," her blue germander eye?" For the eyebright is Euphrasia officinalis, a pretty little white flower with streaks of purple and yellow, and the germander speedwell is certainly the blue flower here meant.
Arriving near to Duddon Hall, we cross the Loggan beck, a tributary of the Duddon, a stream which, taking its rise in black swamps and spongy moors far up the fells, comes thundering down through cloven rocks and sylvan ferny shades, till it reaches the woods, where, down a bed filled with huge blue-grey boulders, it tears along round one obstacle, and overleaps another with a scornful bound, here curling itself snugly up in calm and silent pools, there rushing off again with a loud roar to dash itself down a miniature precipice; here lovingly encircled by fondly drooping boughs, there throwing itself headlong down a clear and skylit space, and finding at last a brief rest at Beckfoot among cottages and homesteads such as an artist loves to paint. Then again gathering fresh strength below the broken bridge, the Loggan leaps at a bound into a deep and narrow chasm darkened with overhanging trees, forming pictures of exquisite beauty. Then on again with a rush and a vigorous roar, it adds its turmoil and its din to that of the now mighty Duddon, growing fiercer and stronger by the union to force its way through the deep and awful chasm at Hawes Bridge.
Immediately below the bridge is a deep glassy pool, Rawfold dub,
--" whose depths surpass In crystal clearness Dian's looking-glass;"
where the silvery salmon loves to sleep, poised on equal fin.
 This crag is also called Worm( i.e., Dragon) Crag.
Descending the lower reaches of the Duddon valley on the Cumberland side, while the silver flashing river rolls on its course to liquid music, the eye is conducted upward through the thick woods, rising stage above stage, and the naked fells peering above them, and thence to the sky-line, where the generally undulating or slightly irregular contour of the rocks of volcanic ash is abruptly broken by a rude vast mass of angular black crags, called Buckbarrow, of which, at this distance, you can hardly conjecture the composition. This rocky pile of split and fissured crags, on a near examination, is found to be well worth the long rough walk by which it is to be reached. Let me, then( just fresh from an actual inspection), endeavour to describe the nature and appearance of these singular crags. The way upon wheels or on horseback from Broughton would be over Duddon Bridge, past Duddon Hall, rising on the wild fell road to Bootle, until, at about six miles from Broughton, it brings you within a mile and a half of the crags. Here the carriage must be left( and there is no shelter for it for a long way), and the horseman or pedestrian must make the best of his way over rising rough and boggy ground to the height of about 900 feet above the sea-level, where he reaches the strange gloomy pile of jagged and broken, shattered and riven volcanic rocks, of which it seems natural to believe that we are actually standing over the crater of a small extinct volcano. It stands isolated on the ridge of the fell, a conspicuous object from Broughton, covering a space of about three or four acres. The huge rampart of black rock, blasted and tormented by the storms of a thousand ages, bristles with vast blocks or pinnacles of a hard volcanic ash. Awful for their dark immovable grandeur, they sternly rise bold and bluff, here into pinnacled crags, there worn down by the innumerable tempests which have beaten fiercely upon them from some period long anterior to the Glacial Age down to the soft, though still transitional, beauty of the age in which we now live. Grand is the belt of the everlasting hills which encircle us in the far-distant horizon on the land side, and the blue sea and the spreading yellow sands of Duddon to the west and south. And yet this wondrous scene is one of the almost unknown spots of the borderland of the Lake District. No guide-book but Baddeley's refers to it. I dare say none have ever visited it but the neighbouring shepherds, the sportsmen, and the officers of the Geological and other Ordnance Surveys. I believe it to be a once submarine, and then upheaved, volcano. A hard volcanic ash, light grey and spotted with white, composes it, and a lava harder still crops out in a south-easterly direction. Some little conception of the geological history of these fells is a sensible addition to the interest felt in their exploration. Here, within the short space of a mile, are visible evidences both of the existence of the volcanic fires of past ages and of glacial action. After the age of fire, succeeded, at a long interval, the ice age, when the vale of Duddon was just as full of ice, in all the sublime glory and majesty of glacier forms, as is the Rhone Glacier now for twenty - five miles above the living source of the infant Rhone. But how do we know this? We know it certainly by the evidence of the action of the grinding and polishing of the ice-torrent, in its slow and ponderous passage down to the icy sea below, upon the hardened volcanic ash through which the Duddon at length has worn its way. Just above the Duddon woods stretch out long spaces of hardened rock, polished to the smoothness of glass by the passage of the ice-torrent, bearing down with it the boulders and the gravels, which have planed the rugged surfaces of rock to that polish which they retain down to this day. Just such smooth surfaces of rock, but vastly greater, are well known on most of the Swiss Alpine passes, especially, as I well remember, on the St. Gothard, and the wonderful Höhle Platte on the Grimsel, over which neither horse nor man could pass without the help of a roughened track.
Here we stand over that which might become the ruin of our empire. Beneath our feet is a crust of solid matter, but how perilously thin contrasted with the immeasurable depth and mass of fluid fire on which it rests with a precarious endurance of which the unreflective mind has no conception! The ground on which we think we stand so securely to-day, once undoubtedly vomited torrents of liquid fire and rivers of molten lava, now hardened into the volcanic ash we see all around us. Suppose these subterranean dormant fires were to burst out afresh, the land to become volcanic again, like that which borders the Cordilleras, and earthquakes and the great eruptive forces again to resume their awful sway-- could England survive it? Her magnificent public and private edifices overthrown; her great stone bridges levelled with the ground; the Forth cantilever Bridge, and the Britannia tubular Bridge, not perhaps thrown down, but twisted out of the beautiful straightness, without which they would become worthless; her closely packed cities heaped in piles of ruin-- all this might be the result of two or three minutes' heaving and trembling of an earthquake in a single night. The public records would be lost, Government would be too seriously embarrassed to be able to hold together. England would be bankrupt, and sink down to the rank of the weak and thinly populated states of the lands of the volcano and the earthquake.
Though some eight miles distant, I cannot resist the temptation here to refer to a spot always associated in my mind with the honoured name of John Ruskin, my kind and dear friend during the time that he enjoyed good health. There is a very wonderful example of rock-weathering, situated by the dark and melancholy tarn called Goat's Water, which lies in the deep and rock-encompassed hollow between the Dow Crags and the Old Man, by whose side rise, gaunt and weird, some strange rocks, furrowed and scored and corrugated all over, exactly as the sea-sands are ripple-marked after the tide has left them. I first drew to it the attention of some officers of the Geological Ordnance Survey who happened, fortunately, to be then working on the spot, and they have duly recorded the phenomenon in their observations. Soon after, Mr. Ruskin and I made this the object of a summer day's excursion from Brantwood-- a day not to be forgotten-- and a mountain walk, in which I satisfied at least myself that my friend, in an unconventional fashion of his own, not readily intelligible to everybody, differing from some who" hold the truth in unrighteousness," and notwithstanding certain protestations made on former occasions, is indeed a Christian man, a servant of God, who holds the truth in righteousness. Of course there are not a few who, working by line and rule, would fit everybody in the matrix from which they issued themselves, and will be surprised at this declaration, which, however, without presuming to judge any who differ from me, I make in all sincerity.
On these remarkable rocks my friend makes the following remark in" Deucalion," page 222:--" The most wonderful piece of weathering in all my own district is on a projecting mass of intensely hard rock on the eastern side of Goat's Water. It was discovered and shown to me by my friend the Rev. F. A. Malleson, and exactly resembles deep ripple-marking, though nothing in the grain of the rock indicates its undulating structure."
[ Since writing the above reminiscence of my few years' friendship with Mr. Ruskin( the intercourse, but not the friendship, being broken by his illness), a new and happy revelation has been made to me-- a complete corroboration of hopes which before had but a struggling existence.
On February 5, this year 1890( the first really brilliant day after two months of storms and heavy rains), the Rector of Grasmere and myself had taken out the Rev. Canon G. E. Mason, the admirable conductor of a Retreat of Clergy at Rydal( then in its midst), along the lovely banks of Rydal Water, when the conversation chanced to fall upon the circumstances just narrated, and Mr. Fletcher mentioned that in" Praeterita" Mr. Ruskin had made a clear and unhesitating statement of his faith in the Christian religion. At my request, he very kindly sent me a copy of the passage to which he referred, which I shall here give in full:--
" In these days of the religion of this and that-- briefly, let us say, the religion of Stocks and Posts-- in order to say a clear word of the Campo Santo, one must first say a firm word concerning Christianity itself. I find numbers, even of the most intelligent and amiable people, not knowing what the word means; because they are always asking how much is true, and how much they like, and never ask, first, what was the total meaning of it, whether they like it or not.
" The total meaning was, and is, that the God who made earth and its creatures took at a certain time upon the earth the flesh and form of man; in that flesh sustained the pain and died the death of the creature He had made; rose again after death into glorious human life; and when the date of the human race is ended, will return in visible human form, and render to every man according to his work. Christianity is the belief in and love of God thus manifested. Anything less than this, the mere acceptance of the sayings of Christ, or assertion of any less than Divine power in His Being, may be, for aught I know, enough for virtue, peace, and safety; but they do not make people Christians, or enable them to understand the heart of the simplest believer in the old doctrine."--" Praeterita," Vol. Ii. ( ed. 1887), pp. 208, 209.
To have known and loved and admired John Ruskin in his days of health and strength, to have grieved over his doubts and struggles, and to see at length the clouds rolled away, and the Sun of Righteousness risen with healing in His wings, as the sun in the heavens was on that day by Rydal Waters shining in unclouded glory out of a serene sky, and glittering in the placid surface of the sweet blue lake at our feet, after so long a season of storm and darkness, was an experience calling for the deepest thankfulness.]
Shall I be forgiven if I quote the following short passage from a published letter addressed to the writer? --
" I have this morning been reading your own[ comments], on which I very earnestly congratulate you. God knows it is not because they are friendly or complimentary, but because you do see what I mean; and people hardly ever do; and I think it needs very considerable power and feeling to forgive and understand as you do."--" Letters to the Clergy on the Lord's Prayer and the Church," page 371.
I may, I trust, without any violation of confidence, relate the apparently slight event that preceded our mountain walk to see the curious rocks at Goat's Water. I had visited Mr. Ruskin at Brantwood, and in a conversation in the drawing-room he had come to the point that he said," I have already given up the Resurrection," when the door-bell rang, and he added," It is well that we are interrupted, or I might have said things that would have pained you more still.". Shortly after came the invitation( 1879) to explore the flanks of the Old Man of Coniston, the quiet lunch, the pleasant row across the lake, and the slow toilsome ascent of the mountain by two men in close conference, both beginning to feel the inroads of age.
The last scene of all is up the stream above Duddon Bridge, just one mile from the quaint and ancient little village-town of Broughton In-Furness. The whole neighbourhood is graced and beautified with woods, with flowers, ferns, and pretty cottages at Bank End embowered in shade; while looking up the placid sheet of Duddon, and just above the bridge, is a finished landscape of wood and water, mountain and fell, seen by the writer a thousand times with undiminished love and interest.
" So may thy poet, cloud-born stream! be free-- The sweets of earth contentedly resigned, 
And each tumultuous working left behind At seemly distance-- to advance like thee; Prepared in peace of heart, in calm of mind And soul, to mingle with Eternity."
Soon after this, Duddon enters the staid and sober stage of his later existence. His gambols and his merry pranks are ended, and, now that the last bridge is passed, he soon spreads widely over the sandy estuary.
" Not hurled precipitous from steep to steep; Lingering no more' mid flower-enamelled lands And blooming thickets; nor by rocky bands Held; but in radiant progress towards the Deep Where mightiest rivers into powerless sleep Sink, and forget their nature-- now expands Majestic Duddon, over smooth flat sands, Gliding in silence with unfettered sweep! Beneath an ampler sky a region wide Is opened round him: hamlets, towers, and towns, And blue-topped hills, behold him from afar."
What a contrast to the origin of the stream, only sixteen miles above! This child of the cloudy heavens enjoys a bright and happy youth, and dies young, entering the sea still clear and bright, and not yet sullied or impure. So might our childhood, so might our manhood, and even our old age, run sparkling and unsullied, till it enters into its rest in the all-embracing arms of the Everlasting Father.
" We, the brave, the mighty, and the wise, We Men, who in our morn of youth defied The elements, must vanish;-- be it so! Enough, if something from our hands have power To live, and act, and serve the future hour; And if, as toward the silent tomb we go, Through love, through hope, and faith's transcendent dower, We feel that we are greater than we know."
1883.

