BRISTOL, Monday, Seprcraber 26.  Clifton Bridge Works.—Under the personal superin. tendance of Mr. Brunei the new bar has been passed across the Avon. Mr. Btunel has desired, and very properly too, that no proceedings shall lake place without his presence ; and the permanent fastenings of the bar in the rock are therefore, although ready, now wailing his arrival at Clifton. he masonry f>r the abutment on the Leigh Wood side is now proceeding with that despatch as is consistent with sound workmanship. he plan adopted by the contractors for raising all materials to the place of work is well contrived, and shows a strict adherence to the economy of labour. An inclined plane, constructed of timber, follows the acclivity of the rocks, upwards of 3CK) feel in height, upon which traverses a triangular carriage on iron tramways, worked up and down by a rope, led on to a drum wheel at the bottom. he operation of raising two tons of stone, or other materials, occupies about five minutes, and is worked easily by two horses; and by the same power, and the application of additional machinery, the process of grinding the lime and ashes, and making the mortar is effected, the whole of which was prepared and fixed by the spirited firm of iMessrs. Acraman. he temporary staircase, erected fur laying the foundation stone, is very kindly aud considerately left by the Trustees for the accommodation of visitors; and the contractors hdve ordered that no person shall be annoyed by the workmen asking for money, but a box is placed for the gratuitous deposits of visitors, which w ill be applied to the general benefit of the workmen in case of sickness or accident—ilr/itof Mirror.  Upwards of 30 French vessels are now in the Swansea harbour, loading steam eagine coals for the use of the French Government.  Bristol Sugar Market, Sept. 23.—The raw sugar market has been dull this week, the purchasers taking for their immediate wants, and then only on rather lower terms. he holders are not anxious to press sales, under the full belief that the article will ere long revive. Hums still much sought after, particularly for the well known good marks. he recent arrivals of coffee have appeared on the market, and are expected to bring full prices, the dealers being anxious to encourage importations direct. Dye woods very brisk, and sell readily from the ship’s side at high prices.