OMS’S DUKE of WELLINGTON Coach leaves the Crown Hotel, Weymouth, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday morning,sta few minutes before oigbt o’clock, through Dorchester, the new road Cerne, Sherborne, Wiucanton, Bruton, aud Frouie, to York House, Bath. From whence it returns every Monday. Wednesday, and Friday morning, at a iW minutes before nine oclock, by the same route.  GOLDEN LION INN, WEYMOUTH.  Royal Dorset, The only Direct WEYMOUTH and BRISTOL COACH, with one Coachman only. HE PROPRI ETORS of this COACH, most respectfully return Thanks to the Nobility, Gentry, and the Public in general, for the distinguished support given them since its commencement, and earnestly solicit a continuance of the same, assuring them that no exertion shall be wanting to render this conveyance superior to any other to Bristol : and to those visiting the Islands of Guernsey and Jersey, it will be found decidedly the most advantageous Coach, It leaves the Golden Lion Inn, St. Mary-Street, every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday morning at hajf-past 7 o’clock, through Dorchester, Maiden Newton, Yeovil, llchestcr, Glastonbury, and Wells: arrives at the White Lion Inn, Broad-Street, Bristol, at 6 o’clock, in time for the Birmingham Mail, and other Northern Coaches: returns from the White Lion lan, Bristol, e?ry Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday morning* at 8 oclock, and arrives at the Golden lion Inn at half-past 6 o’clock, in time for the Packets. U. P. SCOTT and CO. Will not be accountable for any passengers’ luggage, parcel, or any package whatever above the value of Five Pounds, if lost or damaged, unless the same bo entered as such and paid for accordingly, when delivered here or to their agents in town or country, nor will they be accountable for any glass, china, plate, watches, writings, bank notes, or jewels of any description, however small their value. H. M. P. O. Steam Packets sail for Guernsey and Jersey, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evenings, about 7 o’clock, and return from the Islands same evenings. 13th July, 1888.