GOLDEN LION INN,WEYMOUTH. GP. SCOTT, (late from the Antelope Inn, • Dorcheiter,) most respectfully acquaints Ins numerous Friends, and the Public generally, that he has taken the above House, and refitted it in a complete style of accommodation, where he flatters himself, by unremitting attention to his guests, combined with moderate charges, he shall continue to merit a share of that kind patronage which was so liberally bestowed on him for many years at Dorchester. he following COACHES leave the above Inn, where places only can be secured, and at no other Office in Weymouth.  he MAGNET COACH departs for Tendon every morning at a quarter before five oclock, (Sunday excepted,) arrives the same evening at eight oclock, at the Saracens Head Inn, Snow Hill, and Swan with two Necks. I-ad Lane : leaves the above offices every morning nt half past five o’clock, and arrives at nine oclock in the evening. he ROYAL DORSET COACH every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday mornings, at half-past seven oclock, through Maiden Newton, Yeovil, Ilchester, Glastonbury, nnd Wells, to the White Lion, Broad Street, Bristol, at half-past six o’clock, in time for the Birmingham Mails and other northern coaches; returns every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, in time for the Packets.  he COMMERCIAL COACH, at eight oclock every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday morning*, through Dorchester, Wareham, Poole, Christchurch, and Lymington, to the Coach and Horses, Southampton, where it arrives at seven oclock, the same evening ; returns Monday, Wednesday, and Friday to the Golden Lion lau, Weymouth, at seven in the evening  Performed by GEO. P. SCOTT & CO. Who will not be accountable for any passengers’ luggage, parcel, or any package whatever above the value of Five Pounds, if lost or damaged, unless the same be entered as such, and paid for accordingly, when delivered here or to their agents in town or country, nor will they he accountable for any glass, china, plate, watches, writings, bank notes, or jewels of any description, however small their value.