MAGNET COACH OFFICE,  GOLDEN LION INN, WEYMOUTH. rpHE Proprietors of the above Coach, iniI pressed with a deep sense of gratitude for the distinguished support given them bv the Nobility, Gentry, and the public in general, embrace this opportunity of returning their best thanks for favours conferred, and respectfully solicit a continuance of the same; and, for their better accommodation, beg to inform them that the MAGNET will, from and after the l6th inst, leave the GOLDEN LION INN, WEYMOUTH, EVERY MORNING, at a quarter before five o’clock, and reach the Gloucester UolFee-house and Hatchet s Hotel, the same evening at eight pthe Saracen’s Head Inn, Snow-hill, and the Swan-with-twOrNecks, Lad-lane, at halfpast eight o’clockit leaves the last-mentioned Inns every morning at half-past five. Hatchet’s Hotel at six, and arrives at the Office, Weymouth, at nine the same evening—T wo Coachmen only.  PIRFORMm av SCOTT, OLIVER, MOUNTAIN; WATERHOUSE, & Co. No expense will be spared or exertions wanting to render this conveyance complete with accommodation, and those who are visiting tho Islands of Guernsey and Jersey, will find it an advantageous line of road, as his Majesty’s I’ostOflko Steam Packets leave Weymouth for the Islands regularly every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings about seven o’clock. Will not bo accountable for. any passengers luggage, parcel, or any package whatever above the value of five Pounds, if lost or damaged, unless the same be entered as such and paid for accordingly, when delivered here or to their agents in town or country, nor will they he accountable for any glass, china, plate, watches, writings, bank notes, or jewels of any description, however small their value.  DLANDFORD, April*, 1828. SSIMMONDS, Bookseller, Binder, and • Printer, embraces this opportunity of returning his most sincere thanks (nover while life lasts will it be forgotten) to the Nobility, Gentry, his numerous Friends, and Public in general, for the unbounded favors bo has received for the great number of years he lias been in established Business, (more than 60.) and strongly recommends Mr. JOHN BARRE TT, as bis Successor in the same House 4t Business.  J BARRETT having taken to the BUSI• NESS of Mr. SiM«ovns, in all its branches,hopes for the continuance of the favflrs Mr. S. has received from his Friends and the Public in general, as nothing in his power shall be wanting to execute their favors with the greatest care and attention, on tho lowest terms, and acknowledged with gratitude.  Mr. BARRETT will continue to receive the Samsbury Journals. Mrs. Barrett having been an Assistant to Mr. S. for several years last past.