HE DORSET COUNTY CHRONICLE AND SOMERSETSHIRE GAZETTE.  IRELAND.  he Archbishop of Armagh, m a charge to his clergy, speaks favourably of the New Tithe Bill. His Grace only regrets that any party should desire the subversion of the arrangement. All the recent papers from Ireland contain the usual proportion of details of blood and outrage of every description. Mr. OTonnell has just published a third letter. It is unusually tume and decent: he deprecates an alliance with the Knglish Kadicals, lest they should seduce the poor innocent Humanist Kadicals of Ireland into crimes so abhorrent from their natural disposition as outrage and rebellion. He says that the English Kadicals, by asking too much can do no good, and they are too vituperative for the O’Connell alliance! Mr. O’C’onneli asks, in his reduced schedule of demands“ 1, An equal reform of our municipal corporations with that existing in England.—2, An equal extension of the parliamentary franchise with that existing in England 3, An equal degree of religious liberty with that existing in England ; so that the Irish nation at large shall no longer be compelled or called upon to support the Church of a small minority of the Irish people—l, A due and adequate proportion for Ireland of the representation of the United Parliament.” Four of the English Assistant Commissioners have been appointed to conduct the preliminary business of the Irish Poor Law Commission. It is intended also to appoint four Irish gentlemen to work with them in the administration of the act; three of the latter were gazetted on Friday; the fourth, we understand, will be Mr. Nugent Vaughan, who was the only one of the Commissioners of inquiry, who wss employed during the whole period of investigation, and who examined every feature in Ireland. It is intended to employ the Irish Assistant Commissioners in the first instance in this country; so that they may be prepared by acquaintance with the actual working of the new system in England. Jesuit Dan an Orangman,~~A work has just issued from the Dublin press, hearing the title of Irish Tranouillity under Mr. O’Connell, My Lord Mulgrave. and the Romish Priesthood,” written by a distinguished Irish Physician, Dr. Meyler, a recent convert Irom Popery. his work not only unfolds some terrible truths as to the system of conspiracies in Ireland, but informa the world that the great State vagabond who is now levying his extortions upon the poor Irish people on the strength of bis lies and libels against the Orange Societies, was actually an Orangeman in 1798, the very period which he has so often selected for his denunciations aa the worst in the history of Orange atrocities. It appears. moreover, upon the same authority, that he was sent, when young, to a Jesuit’s College in France, to be educated for the priesthood; but that he there became an infidel and returned to Ireland, soon after which he joined the yeomanry. In a violent notice of Dr. Meyler’s book in the Dublin Review, of which Mr. O’Connell is the advertised editor, every descrip ion of rabid abuse is thrown out upon the author, but the facts stated above are not even there denied.  HE CHURCH.