J Circulated ky the different Agentstn every Town in the J ra « J South and IVest of England. i RICE f(l  novel one; but what followed the moat enthusiastic would scarcely have conjectured—2o minutes passed by ere there were any tidings of her approach, during which the congregation were employed, some in prayer, others in surveying the beautiful scenery which surrounded them. But the attention of by far the greatest number was steadfastly directed to that part of the enclosure where it was known she would first make her appearance. All was anxiety; at length she came; a confused whisper ran through the crowd, and all was still again. She left the carriage and approached with a firm and steady step the stage which had been kindly erected for her convenience. After removing her bonnet, which left her head completely uncovered, except by a beautiful suit of black hair, modestly braided, she stood forth to her auditors. It was then, and not till then, that they had a full view of her. Her countenance was serene, her mind to all appearance perfectly tranquil, aud her manneruuusually attractive. hose who before had considered divine worship a toil, now, for the first time, experienced the pleasures of it. She commenced, as is usual, by reading from the Bible. his, because of oar distance from her, we heard but at intervals. he hymn however which followed, we heard distinctly, and so far as we are capable of judging.-pronounce it to have been read beautifully correct. he last line of the third verse—“ Behold, behold the Lamb,” was inimitable. Her prayer was admirable : the language. chaste and classical, seemed to come from her very soul, while her whole appearance induced the belief that she felt herself in the presence of (jod. utterly unconscious of human observation. he sermon we dare not descant upon; wa are incapable, not to say unworthy, of such an undertaking. Suffice it to say, from the first word uttered, even unto the last, she had the attention of her audience riveted upon her. Not a sound could be heard, save now and theu a half suppressed sob, which her own eloquence drew from some of the listeners.