CORFE MULLEN.  DISASTROUS Fire.—Between one and two oclock on Friday morning a fire of a most destructive nature broke out at a farm in Corfe Mullen village, on the estate of St. John Coventry, Esq. Mr. William Perbani was just leaving the place, having sold off his stock, and transferred his lease to Mr. Jesty, of Bere Regis, the award has yet not having been completed, although Mr. Jesty has been in possession, so that, the property not being insured, the heavy loss is likely to fall on the latter. It appears that between 9 and 10oclock Mrs. Perham smelt something like burning wood, and she and her servant looked partly round the stable and piggery, but discovered nothing. Mr. Perham came home at 10 oclock and put his horse in the stable without a light, and all appeared safe. Mrs. Perham, it appears, said nothing to her husband of her suspicion, having retired to rest at 11 oclock, and about one she awoke and saw a glare of light. Upon getting up it was found that the mangel and waggon sheds, where a quantity of furze faggots were stowed away, were nearly down, and a poor cow and calf wero sacrificed to the devouring element. he stable adjoining was also in a blaze, where there were five horses, and so rapid was the spread of tho flames that all of them perished. he barn, containing six or seven sacks of oats, was also burnt down, besides which three waggons and the whole of the implements were destroyed, aud two hay ricks, one entirely consumed and the other partly burnt—what was saved by the Wimborne fire engine being unfit for food. It appears to have been the custom for the servant maid to put the ashes from the house in a heap against the end of the stable, which end was made of weather boards, and it is possible that as a good deal of wood was used for fuel that some embers may have remained from time to time imperceptible, and slowly communicated with the weather boarding, and thence to the straw in the stable, though the true cause is quite unknown. Mr. Perham allowed his fire insurance to lapse at Christmas, and thus the loss will fall on Mr. Jesty or himself, it being estimated at about £250. he buildings are insured in the-Atlas office, Mr. I. O. Chislett being the agent, and also agent of the estate. he fire must have been very sudden or confined, as neither the police constable, who passed by the farm-yard at half-past 11 oclock, nor Mr. Perham, on his return home, saw anything ; Mrs. Perham only having smelt burning wood, which is very possible to have proceeded from the ash heap.