CONSERVATIVE WORKING MENS ASSOCIATIONS. Permit me to impress on all your readers who wish to repel the Radical assumption that the Reform League doctrines monopolise the minds of working men, the importance of fostering the growth of Conservative associations which can embody the views of Conservative working men. One of these bodies exists in London—the Metropolitan Working Mens Conservative Association, and the subscription for working men is one shilling, and for honorary members five shillings per annum. I know nothing privately of the association, but, as a Conservative who believes in its good effects, have become a member. I trust many of your readers will do the same, and consider also whether a Dorsetshire association cannot be formed. he offices of the Metropolitan Working Mens Conservative Association are 11, Parliament-street, London, S.W. Riugwood, 8th July. Wit. Reade, Junr. HE ODDFELLOWS FINANCES. My attention has been drawn to a speech made by Mr. Western, a highly zealous and able officer of the Oddfellows Order, at Dorchester. he speaker refers to imputations which I am supposed to have made (when taking the chair at the Garibaldi Lodge dinner on WhitMonday), of want of safety on the part of the society. A complete misunderstanding exists in the mind of the speaker as to what I said ; 1 think I was not misunderstood by those who heard me. Had I cause to doubt its safety I should certainly not have exerted myself to support the society, eveu by the humble effort of taking the chair. he question which 1 put was this, " Inasmuch as the safety of your society depends on the correct calculation of its tables, why do you not have them certified (as suggested in the Act of Parliament) by an actuary, a person whose business is calculation ?" 1 was answered that Mr. idd Pratt had had rules, accounts, and all before him, and that by his certificate he showed that the tables were correctly calculated. hat such is the effect of the registrars certificate is, I believe, a common impression and a common mistake. I therefore pointed out that the certificate only shows that the rules are in conformity with law, and that it does not enter upon the question (on which all safety depends) whether the tables are sound and fair. I further pointed out that the certificate says, in so many words, " The rates of contributions and payments are not stated to have been prepared by any actuary." My question remained, " Why, if (as I assume to be the case) your rates are well calculated, do you not have the skilled examination aud recognition of them which the law suggests, and which you, mistakenly, think yourselves to possess in Mr. idd Pratts certificate ?" Such examination cannot indeed be conclusive; but it gives, prima facie, a public guarantee of soundness. Oliver Wm. Parker. Moreton, Dorchester, July 8, 1867.