DEVONSHIRE  EXETER,   he British Association.—A meeting of the local mvitation committees of Exeter and Plymouth, for securing the visit of the British Association to one of those places in 1869, was held on Thursday, to consider what steps should be taken to end the present rivalry. After much discussion it was decided to refer the question to the last three Presidents of the British Association— Professor Phillips, Mr. Grove, and the Duke of Buccleuch, to say which town should retire and help the other. Devon Quarter Sessions.—The Michaelmas Sessions were held last week for this county at the Castle of Exeter, Sir John Duckworth, Bart., in the chair. wo county rates, amounting to £3,856 os. Bd., were asked for and granted, for general purposes, and half a rate, £964 os. 2d., together with £36 ss. from Stoke Damerel, for the Lunatic Asylum. he treasurer also applied for an order to assess and levy on the police district, comprising all the parishes and places in the county except East Stonehouse, a police rate, for the Epiphany quarter, for raising the sum of £5,644 12s. 3d. for the purposes of the constabulary of the said district.—The Cattle Plague Central Committee reported that, as under section 7 of the Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act, 1867, power is given to a local authority in cases where such local authority has formed a committee under section 8 of the Cattle Diseases Prevention Act, 1866, to appoint and designate such committee as its executive committee for the purpose of the first-mentioned Act, and the executive committee so appointed then has all the powers of local authority, except the power to make a rate. hey therefore recommended their appointment as the executive committee.—The report was received and adopted.—The Earl of Devon then moved that the Court constitute the Cattle Plague Central Committee as the executive committee, under the Contagious Diseases Prevention Act.—Mr. Wade said he felt great pleasure in seconding that. hey ought to have a standing committee, so that it would not be necessary to call the whole of the magistrates together when there was any business.—The motion was carried.—The Earl of Devon presented certain bills incurred with regard to the cattle plague. he printing cost £512 12s. 6d., aud the whole amount of the bill was £707.—The Chairman said the principal charge in the printing account was for passes, for wliich people had not to pay.—The bills were ordered to be paid, and a local rate of £482 ordered to be levied.—Mr. Kekewich moved " That the Clerk of the Peace be authorised on behalf of the local authority of the county to apply to the Privy Council for licences for exhibitions of cattle in the same manner as he is already authorised to do for markets and sales of cattle, and subject to similar conditions."—Mr. Wade seconded the motion, which was carried.—Several other matters of more or less interest were brought before the Court.