EXETER DISTRICT COURT OF BANKRUPTCY.  hursday.—(Before Mr. Registrar King.) Re Walter William Commins, hotel keeper, auctioneer, dealer, and chapman, of Weymouth and Melcombo Regis, Dorset.—This was a meeting for choice of assignees.—Mr. rrell represented the estate, and Mr. Hirtzel appeared for creditors. he report of the official assignee show that the bankrupt owes to unsecured creditors £975 18s. ; and to those holding security, £30—total, £1,005 18s. he assets are doubtful debts, about £10; furniture, valued at about £500 ; stock-in-trade and fixtures, £100; and a policy■of assurance, held by secured creditors, supposed to be worth £30-total, £640, leaving a deficiency of £365. Mr. Groves, brewer, &c., of Weymouth, holds a bill of sale for £200 on bankrupts furniture, which was given to him by the bankrupts late wife beforo their marriage. ho bankrupt was examined at some length by Mr. Hirtzel, as to his debt to Mr. Groves. He said he believed Mr. Grovess claim for £470 was correct: that included the bill of sale. At the time he married, in Oct., 1863, he had made no inquiry of his wife as to her property. He believed that all she possessed was her own, and he knew nothing of the bill of sale to Mr. Groves, until he accidentally discovered papers relating to it in a drawer a year and a half after the marriage. He never interfered with his wifes business. he cheques drawn on the spirit account included interest; but he had drawn them at his wifes request without inquiring into particulars. In Nov., 1866, he was on a visit at Chippenham, and he was then served with a copy of a notice which had been left with his barmaid at the hotel, requesting that tho furniture should be given up. He refused to give up the furniture, and told Mr. Groves he should be acting unfairly towards the other creditors if he did so He also told him that he was surprised at the notice being served, inasmuch as he had paid him £86 not long before, and, as the plant on the premises was as laroc as before, the bill of sale was just as good security. No one was then pressing him (the bankrupt), and he had no hostile creditor. Mr. rrell carried the choice, and appointed Mr. Richard Commins (father of the bankrupt) cabinet-maker, Weymouth, creditors assignee. he last examination was fixed for the 19th Feb., 1867.