JEFFERSON DAVIS.  Dorset tfaunty tfhronitU.  JULY 4, 1867  The future annals of American history will contain no name around which greater interest or a higher momentary fame will gather than that of Jefferson Davis. he history of A merica is a young history; but it nevertheless contains the names of many wise and famous men, who have stood proudly forward in defence of their countrys dearest interests, and have averted the shock of peril and danger from her institutions. But until the Southern States rushed out into positive revolt against the laws and institutions of the country, no man had been found so bold as to raise the standard of rebellion with a view to sever the Union, and to divide the territories of America in twain. In the upset and antagonism of all law which ever accompanies a revolutionary outbreak, men and events are alike flung upward on the surface of the tumult and rage of the people. It was thus and in this manner that Jefferson Davis obtained prominence in the Southern States rebellion, and occupied for a short period of two or three years the place of President of the Confederacy, aud ruled with a power that threatened at one time to overturn all the existing institutions of the country. hat he failed to accomplish the great ends which the Southern statesmen of that day bad in view, is no proof of the injustice of his acts in espousing the cause of founding a new Republic. he history of the struggle in which those states engaged was a brilliant one. he distant nations of the world looked on in expectation and wonder, and iv the long strife and conflict by sea aud laud, with victory alternately swayed from side to side, there was manifested a valour and heroism to "which the battle-fields of the New World had been strangers. But the strife is over, the victories are past, the dead are in their graves, aud the victor and vanquished once more recognise the loyalty of a one and undivided republic. If there was an undue rigour and severity displayed in the early days when Jefferson Davis was confined in Fortress Monroe, the stormy national passions that then rolled around him have subsided into calmness, and a juster judgment has been passed on those deeds over which for a time he was political chief and ruler. In granting to him liberty and freedom the American people have shown a readiness to forget and bury in eternal oblivion a strife in whose contests some of the best blood of the country was spilt, and some of its best and bravest spirits trampled unto death. America, we trust, is awakening up to a new era, in which all past failure and folly shall be forgotten, and better and more honourable results shall be obtained as springing from greater and nobler political designs aud ideas. Amid the surging activities of wealth, commerce, and enterprise, industry may leap a new harvest of glory ; but humanity and wisdom will point with unfaltering finger to that freedom which America has so liberally granted to him who ouce ruled in Presidential power of arms against the preservation intact of the United States.