HAMPSHIRE.  It is proposed to establish a Naval Library at Portsmouth. an institution which would be eminentl) useful to the officers studying at the Naval College, to those fitting out and to the junior branches, who are required to repair to that port to pass their examination in navigation. he Portsmouth Garrison Races, on Tuesday, on Portsdown Hill, attracted a very large assemblage of company. he sport, however, was so miserable, that the term is scarcely applicable on this occasion.  It seems to be a matter of pretty general complaint, that the Races at Southampton arc sadly falling off. We are very sorry to hear it. It is, however, to be hoped, that the inhabitants of that beautiful town possess too much public spirit, to suffer this delightful, animating, and truly English sport to want that support without which it is to be feared that these Races will soon cease to be an object of interest. It appears that no tim® should be lost— Salisbury Journal. Lieut. Shuldham is now at Portsmouth, in a launch, fitted, at the desire of the Admiralty, with his revolving mast, for the purpose of having the efficacy of his plan tried with other vessels. A trial with the launches of the ships here, will in a few days take place. Although a launch is one of the worst description of boats for sailing, yet on her way round from the Downs this vessel beat every thing she met with.—even a large revenue cutter ; when blowing fresh, if the water is smooth, she lies within three points of the wind. Biscuit Machine.—The Navy Board is manufacturing biscuits at Portsmouth by machinery. he first process is that of mixing the meal (five cwt. in one batch) with a sufficient quantity of water, which is accomplished in two minutes; the second process is that of rolling the dough, which is placed on boards, to its proper thickness; and the third and last process is passing the dough, when rolled, under the stamping machines, which will cut out the extraordinary number of 360 per minute, or 21,600 per hour. he whole of these operations are performed without the dough coming in contact with the hand, or any other part of the body, and the machines perform their respective duties with admirable precision, expedition, and cleanliness, and have fully answered the most sanguine expectations of their spirited inventor.