SPAIN.  he proceedings of the Constitutionalists in Spain •xcite considerable interest; but unfortunately not any of the accounts which arrive from that country can be implicitly relied on. It is worthy of notice, that whilst the agents of the Spanish government, who had been deceived by false intelligence, were sending round to the different courts an account of the ex* termination of Valdez, the friends of that person were circulating a report, writteu by Valdez, in which he describes the affair winch had been represented as ending in his destruction, as a complete victory, in which his little band of 3UO men put to flight a body of two thousand. Colonel Valdez may have exaggerated, but this circumstance is calculated to put every reader of Spanish news from either party upon his guard. Mina, in crossing the frontiers, published a proclamation addressed to the Spaniards, in the course of which he says France has just set them an example, traced in a former age by England, of the mode of preventing the destruction of their liberties, and of defending them with heroic valour, and admirable moderation. He then calls on the Spanish nation to imitate these great examples, and to establish liberty and order as they have done. Mina is reported to have taken Irun. He encountered the Count dEspagne(Ferdinands General) at Junquera and drove his troops from that place, of which the Constitutionalists took possession amidst the cheers of the inhabitants. Milan, another Constitutional Chief, with a body of 240 men, had entered Spain by Massanet, and effected a junction with’ Mina at Junquera. he French fort at Bellegarde had saluted the Constitutional colours, and the garrison took out refreshments to the refugees. it is reported that in Gallicia the Constitutionalists meet with no opposition, but form in that province their own local jurisdictions. he royal troops are marching in all directions, and the strictest formality in the granting and inspection of passports is rigourously insisted on. Amidst the conflicting account* relating to Spain, it is necessary that they should be read with caution. _ The most certain mode of finding the truth will be in the Constitutionalists being able to keep their ground and to advance. hey cannot be stationary, for either a short time will establish their purpose, or the troops of Ferdinand will drive them out of Spain altogether. he great mass of the people, it may fairly be presumed, are too much under the power of the Catholic Priesthood to enable Mina and bis partisans to effect their intended revolution. he French volunteers for Spain have returned to France, disgusted with the discipline of the Constitutional army. hey were not allowed to form an independent corps of Frenchmen, but were dispersed among the Spanish companies. High pay and fine clothing were only promised, and the robbery of a convent was to be punished with aeath. Under these conditions the invasion of Spain had no charms for Frenchmen, and they returned from the glories and triumphs which they had anticipated. Whether Mina, or some other leader of the Constitutionalists, was the author of these regulations respecting Frenchmen, they are a proof of thegood feeling and honest intentions of the invaders.