Present Entries  3 Pat Heifers 2 In-calf Heifers 2 Pet Cows 1 Cow in Calf 20 Fat Wethers 30 Prime Pat Down Ewes 10 ditto ditto 20 Fat Ewes Bay Pony, 3 yearsjold, broken to saddle and harness New Dung Putt, Spring Cart nearly new, a ditto, and new wheelbarrow The CHRISTMAS SALE of FAT STOCK, &o. will hi held on Saturday, December 6th. Entries respectfully solicited, N.B.—No Stock delivered to purchasers until paid for. All accounts settled with the Vendors the same evening or cheque remitted as occasion requires. [9319  O BE DISPOSED OF.—Thirty Dozen of SHEEP CRIBS, at £1 per Dozen, to be delivered, if required.—Warranted good. Apply to H. Poster, Higher Whatcombe, nea Blandford. (9389  BLANDFORD, DORSET, Highly Important Autumnal Salt of Aldtrnty, Jertty, and Ontrntty Cattle.  MB. ROSSITER baa received inatructions from Mr. Edmund Pwruona Fowler, tbe Sole Importer and Purveyor from tbe Channel Islands to the Royal Dairies at Windsor and Osborne, to SELL by AUCTION, at the Three Chodcjhs Inn Yard, Blahdford, at Three o’clock punctually in the afternoon, on Saturday, November 22nd, 1862,—Ten very choice and well-selected just calving-down CATTLE from the abovenamed Islands The Guernseys have the Island Certificate, without which none are genuine. he small consumption of food, the yield of milk and cream of these animals are truly astonishing, both in quantity and quality* The richness, firmness, and delicious taste of their butter commands an extra price in all the principal markets in the kingdom. ..... , Mr. Fowler has preference of all prize cattle exhibited: and the high estimation in which his character and judgment are held is incontestibly proved by his having been appointed judge seven years, and by his been honoured with the selection of Cattle for the (Queen’s Dairy, as well as for most of the Nobility of Great Dritian. he Auctioneer feels that he only discharges his duty to Mr. E. P. Fowler by stating that be has had the honour for the last twenty years of selling these Cattle to the Nobility and Gentry of England, and that they have in every instance given the most unbounded satisfaction. be above Herd has been selected by Mr. Fowler himself (who is the sole and only genuine exporter of these extraordinary Cattle) expressly for this sale, and the Auctioneer has the fullest confidence in recommending them to the notice of his friends and patrons. he Cattle will be on view the morning of sale. Catalogues containing age, when expected to calve, and colour, may be obtained of the Auctioneer, post free. Dated Auction and Agency Offices, Sturminster Newton, Nov. 11th, 1862. [9851