PORTLAND.  Serious Accident.—As is the custom in our island during the wedding festivities of our inhabitants, and immediately after tbe ceremony is performed, " guns" are fired in commemoration of the event. On Wednesday the marriage of Mr. William John Pearce and Miss Jauet Hine was celebrated, and, as a matter of course, the firing of guns, &c., was the sequence. A cousin of the bridegroom, Mr. Edward John Pearce, had bravely discharged his piece some two or three times; but on loading again (the socket being hot), the powder exploded, and the charge seemed to have almost shattered the hand of the unfortunate man, and it may be a long time ere he can again resume the use of the suffering, though all-important limb. Excursion.—On Monday afternoon last the new steamship Eclair, of Dartmouth, came into our harbour, bringing with her a numerous party of excuriouists from Torquay. he Eclair is a maguificent two-fuunelled boat, and made the voyage from Torquay to Portland in little more than four hours, arriving here about half-past one oclock. he weather was delightfully fine, aud the visitors were enabled to make v survey of our rugged coast under the most favourable auspices. A party was made up, who proceeded by train to Weymouth, just long enough to catch a glimpse of the fine esplanade there- and others dispersed over the Chesil Beach, the Breakwater and other places of interest. About five oclock the steamer again left, and after a very pleasant voyage arrived home shortly alter half-past nine oclock. Roman Remains in Portland.—At a recent meeting of the Arcbsological Institute, the Marquis Camden, X G., in the chair, Professor Buckmaii described the Roman remains recently discovered in the Is c of Portlaud. Until very lately (says the Reader) v has been imagined that no evidence of Roman occupation existed in Portland; but the progress of the works connected with the fortification now in operation has revealed a Roman burial-ground, many of the graves containing specimens of pottery, fibulas, rings, and other Roman relics, which were preserved by Captains lyler and Maiuguy, R.E., and sketched by Mr. Buckman. Among the relics are a bronze spear head, a bronze stirrup curiously ornamented with beads, a bronze j enamelled fibula, a gold coin of early British date, and |  wo first brass coins, the one of Antoninus, the other of Hadrianus, a curious iron instrument of unknown use, and several pieces of pottery. [When the institute visited Canford last year the members were shown several very interesting articles by Mr. Luff, which had been obtained from Portland, affording undoubted proof of Roman occupation.]