NTY CHRONICLE AND SOMERSETSHIRE GAZETTE.  HAMPSHIRE.  Mrs. Napier, her two tianghtertf, ami son. Captain Napier, embarked and sailed for Lisbon, from Portsmouth, on Thursday afternoon, amidst the congratulations and cheers of a numerous party of friends. An itinerant preacher has been holding forth in the streets of Portsea during the week, and issuing tracts. He is said to be a disciple of the Kev. Mr. Irving. He met with but poor success.  he small-pox is very prevalent at present in the village of Harobteden and its vicinity. Nearly all the towns in Hampshire will this winter be lighted with gas. At Romsey the pipes have been laid down this week, and in the course of next month it is expected the works will be completed. he money fbr this undertaking waa raised by shares, which were all sold In a few days, the purchasers expecting to obtain 7 or 8 per cent, for their money. he inhabitants of St. Maty Kalendar, Winchester, resolved, on Thursday last, not to any portion of the expenses incurred in conducting Divine Service in St. Maurices chnrch, except such as the law oompelled,on the ground that the parishioners had no adequate accommodation in the above church, and it was resolved to adjourn the consideration of Risking a new church rate for St. Mary Kalendar until that day nine months. he Members for the Borough of Portsmouth are shortly expected there, for the purpose of undergoing a thorough badgering—M. Herald. he Select Vestry of Fordingbridgc came to the resolution on Friday of discharging all their labourers who do not belong to the parish. I’outes, Sept. 20.—The Earl of Durham’s grand fete to the Duchess of Kent, the Princess Victoria, 3fc., was given on Saturday, when the weather was highly propitious. he entertainments concluded with abrilliant display of fire works,— On Monday, their Royal Highnessesembarked at Norris Castle, to pay a visit to Donna Maria, of Portugal. At four oclock, the Soho steamer, with the illustrious Portuguese visitors on board, rounded tbe point of Norris Castle, and the wind blowing fresh from the W.S. Vf., With torrents of rain, the Soho lay-to during the night. At half past five on Tuesday morning, tbe wind having veered round to VV.N.W., the Soho, accompanied by the Government steamer, Salamander, as an escort, got under weigh, and proceeded on their voyage to Lisbon.