BIBLE PRINTING.  In the evidence given during the early pert of this session before the select committee on the Queens Printers patent, the annual ,reduction of Bibles in this country is ecitnated by Mr. r. Knight at between two and three millions of copies. he books for which there is the next largest permanent demand are said to be Skakspeare, and, perhaps, TAe Pilgrims Progress ; but it is not considered that more than 2000 copies of Shakspeare are sold in a y,ar. It appears :hat there was, until of late years, much carelessness in printing the bible. So recently 061831 Principal Lee stated, " I iio not know any book of which it is so difßeult to find a very correct edition as the English Bible." he bibles now issued from the Univeisities and by the Queens Printers are very accurate ; the Oxford printers offer a guinea for the discovery of any mistake. But some of the Billies allowed (on account of leaving notes) to be printed by private printers have verbal inaccuracies, and there are errors in some Bibles which have bean published in Scotland, where Bible printing is tree to all, but under supervision. In the United States a preference is given to English editions printed by authority, because it is considered • greater security for the correctness of the text ; and the preference cannot be wondered at, when we fit.d a printer stating before this committee that an edition of the Bible with notes was issued by a private printer in England and got into extensive circulation, and it was proposed to print it in Scotland under the authority of the Bible Board, but they found so many erri•rs in it that they rejected it, and so (says the witness) the " copies bad to be exported Printers state in their evidence that there is great difficulty in attaining correctness with regard to the italics ; one improvement proposed has been that of printing within brackets the words eecessary to make up the sense, instead of pri..ting them in itslics according to th. barbarous custom of the present printers of the Scrip. turn," which Mr. Knight also cmiteinus as embertossing to unlearned readers. But the chief alteration of the present day consists of a division into paragraphs instead of chapters ; in some instances, however, this division is made with very little judgment. A Louden publisher told the committe, that he anticipates that stereotype plates of the Bible will, on the repeal of the paper duty, be sent hence to Germany, and the Bibles printed there fur importation into this country, and he r.fers to so English book which was sent to Leipsic to be printed and then publielted in this country, the inducement being the cheeriness of paper in Germany, in consequence of the practical prohibition of the exportation of esp.