SHEttBOUNIC.  LITERARY INsTITETION.—The Rev. W. Barnes, of Dorchester, delivered a lecture at the Institution Rooms, on Thursday last, on the Dorset Dialeet." he chair was taken by J. Y. Mammoth, Esq. here was an excellent attendance and the lecture was of a most amusing. iuteresting and instructive character, and. from the marked atteution shown by the audience, it was evident all were highly gratified. Fias.—Shortly after tire oclock on Monday morning last, the inhabitants of this tows were aroused from their slumbers by the doleful sound or the fire-b• 11, and on discovery the tire was timid to proceed front an out-house in the field adjoining the Lamb Inn, in Hound-street, containing hurdles, planks, &c., to the value of about £7O or £BO, used for the fair and markets. he engines were quickly on th 2 sp it, bat were of no avail, the materials iu the place being of such a combustible nature that it was speedily bum to the ground, the dames rising so high that the greater portion of the town was illuminated. Fortunately there were no dwelling-houses near, as from the prevailing high wind at the time, iu all probability much loss of property would have ensued. he whole is iusurcd iu the General Fire Office, to the full value. UNION CHAPEL SUNDAY SCHOOL—The analal distribution of rewards for punctual attendance to the scholars of this school, took place on Friday evening last. he children assembled at the schuol.room at half-past five oclock, where they found an immense Christmas tree, beautifully lighted up with small lamps, and, loaded with innumerable presents, which soon dsappeared amongst the respective owners. After the distribution, a very elegant gold pencil case, purchased by the teachers, was taken from the tree and presented by Mr. Worsley to the superintendent, Dr. Williams, with an address signed by the teachers, begging him to accept it as a slight token of their esteem, and their appreciation of the valuable services rendered by him as superintendent to the above school. Dr. Williams replied in a neat speech. he Rev. Mr. Beckley then addressed a few words of advice to the scholars, and after singing and player, the iutetesting meeting sepatatcd.