--- TO THE FREE AND INDEPENDENT ELECTORS OF THE BOROUGH OF WAREHAM. GENTLEMEN, Having made a canvass of the Borough, the result justifies me in looking forward with ounfidence to my reelection. I cannot, however, refrain from noticing the unworthy course resorted to by my opponent, in order to divert Conservative votes from their legitimate channel; which is anything but honest and straight forward, and deserves to be exposed. I omitted in my late address to touch upon a subject which engages the attention of the agricultural interest at this moment, namely, the Malt Tax. On the repeal of the Corn Laws, this tax ought to have followed on the same principle. I shall he ready to vote for its repeal, as also that odious Income Tax, which can never be made fair and equal, and which would long have ceased to exist, if the Government of Lord Derby had continued in power. I hope these views will meet your approbation,  and that on the day of election you will be there to give me your support. I am your faithful and obliged servant, J. S. W. SAViBRIDGE ERLE DRAX. Charborough Park, June 21st, I $65.  O THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS OF THE BOROUGH OF LYMINGTON. /2.ENT LEMEN,- A GENEItAL N., ELECTION being near at hand, and believing that my principles are in accordance with the majority of the electors of this borough, I beg to offer myself as a candidate to represent your views and interests in the House of Commons.,Although personally unknown to many among you I am not ignorant of the pesition of your borough and its electioneering history, and I confidently anticipate that I shall receive the cordial support of all the friends of independent and free election. 1 feel assured that the most searching enquiry into my political, professional, and personal character, will give you entire satisfaction. Attached during the whole of my political life to the great Liberal party, I shall support those men whose measures have so largely contributed to the prosperity and happiness of the people of this country, and should you do ins the honor of  electing me as your representative, I shall proceed cautiously, carefully, and independently in the same direction. I have not entered into an elaborate exposition of principles in this address, but I shall be prepared to give the fullest explanation of all my views, on political questions, in a day or two, when I intend having the honor of addressing the people of Lymington at a public meeting. I have the honor to be gentlemen, Your most obedient servant, THOMAS NORTON. 13. Bolton-row, Mayfair,London, and Angel  Lymington, June M. 1865.