Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY, 12. City, Tiro oClock—The funds have been in a state of great stagnation this morni ig. Consols all day at 874, ; the market is now quoted sellers at that price; India Bonds and Exchequer bills are heavy In tbe Foreign Market Mexican and Colombian Bonds are lower, on account of the unfavourable newsfof the morning ; the former are quoted 28, the latter liii; Russian yd. In other Stocks there is no alteration worth reporting. urkey—The accounts from Constantinople, which are of the IKh of January, announce that the Porte has received the declaration of the three allied powers, accord, ing to which Greece, within her narrow limits, is placed under their protection, and is to enjoy the advantages of neutrality. he grand signior is said to have given his assent thereto, and shows a disposition to treat; but he will notlisten°to the proposal of sending a Turkish Plenipotentiary to-any Greek island in the Archipelago.—Consliluiionel. he New York papers, received on Thursday, contain intelligence from Mexico, to the Bth December. he insurrection under General Santa Anna appears still spreading; he has been joined by Montesuma, the Vice-Governor of the State of Mexico, and is reported to have defeated the troops of the government in two engagements. HOUSE OF COMMONS—Wednesday, Feb. 11. Petitions against the granting of Catholic emancipation were presented from Lccleshafl, York, by Sir Kobert lnglis; from Strcatham in Dunsmore, Warwick, by Mr. Dugdale; from Newtown-Barry, Clonegall, and Barra, by .Mr. H. .Maxwell; from Lyme Regis, by Colonel Fane ; and from Killarra, Lacka, Dunferns, and Kilbridge, county of Mayo, by General King. Petitions in favour of concessions to the Catholics were also presen ed from a parish in the Queens County, by Sir Hen-y Parnell; from Kildorking, county of Meath, byLord Clifton ; and from Thomond Gate, county of Limerick, by .Mr. Spring Rice. Mr. DegdalE presented a petition from the physicians and surgeons of Birmingham, and another from the magistrates ol the same town, relative to the procuring of anatomical subjects. Lord Milton presented a similar petition from the physicians and medical practitioners of Sheffield. On the motion of Mr. Dawson, the order of the day for bringing up the report of the committee of supply, was read. he report was brought up by Sir Alexander Grant, and ordered to be taken into further consideration on Friday next. Mr. John Wood presented a petition from the Protestant dissenters of Chorley, Lancashire, in favour of religious toleration. he house adjourned at half-past four.