BOLTON, April 22.  Opening of the Organ at St. Georges Church, Little Bolton.—On Sunday morning and afternoon last, the splendid new organ, built by Alessrs. Jackson and Parvin, for St. Georges Church, was opened by Mr. Barlow, of Manchester. he roof of the church is too low for tlie powers of the organ to be fully developed, and as the church is about to be beautified, we think there would be no difficulty in obtaining subscriptions sufficient to cover the expense of raising the roof about three feet, which would answer every purpose for the requisite vibration of sound. Appropriate sermons were preached upon the occasion, by the Rev. W. histlethwaite, and the Rev. H. Stowell. Selections of sacred music were performed, the principal singers being .Miss Leach, -Mr. Walton, Mr. (ireenhalgh, and Mr. Sheldrick. Coal Pit Accident—Early on Wednesday morning last, a very serious accident happened at Ullart hole coalpit, Little Lever, by which eight of the colliers were seriously injured, in consequence of the explosion of the fire damp, occasioned by the carelessness of one of the men in taking off the top of the safety lamp when he ought not to have done so. A part of the roof had fallen in during the night, and one of the colliers took his candle to see what had happened, by which means the gas in the mine exploded, and caused the injury to the men above alluded to. About five oclock on Friday morning, one of the men, named Richard Brooks, died in consequence of the injuries he had sustained, and has left a wife and a large family. Some of the men are outof danger, and are rapidly recovering; but three of them are still in a precarious state. Vestry Meeting On Thursday forenoon last, a vestry meeting was held at the parish church, for the purpose of passing the constables accounts for the last three months; the Rev. J. Slr.de, vicar, in the chair. he total amount ot expenses forthe quarter, including salaries for the police officers, dungeon expenses, &.c , amounted to £811 l/s. 2d., the receipts within that period to £28 35., leaving a balance of £00 14s. 2d. he accounts were passed unanimously. he salaries of Rollinson and Lee, the assistant constables, were advanced, Rollinsons £10, and Lees £13 per annum. After considerable discussion, the sum of £40 was allowed to Rollinson, towards his share of the expenses of an action at law, which had been brought against him and others, on a charge for false imprisonment of a man accused of forgery. An amendment to the grant was moved by Air. Skelton, and seconded by .Mr. James Darhishire, that no allowance be made to Rollinson, as he was not engaged on the towns duty at the time he brought upon himself the action. he amendment was negatived, by a majority of about two to one. State of Trade—Trade continues to be extremely brisk, a number of new houses and several streets are in progress of building, and a very large factory will be built in the course of the year, as well as two others of a smaller size.