h? following humourous Squib has appeared in the Morning Post. Our ministers from Canada Heard news of sore despair, How Durham loudly had declaimed, And fiercely did declare, That since his friends had treated him So little like a brother, Hed give up hU dictator-*Aip, And embark aboard another ! He would come home !—the dreadful news Came booming oer the deep; It shook the dust in Downing-street— It woke Glenelg from sleep 1 The placemen at each other stared, By Durham all undone! His sroing ojfmade such a noise, For he was their great gun! Alas! hey cried,\\he is not one To lay upon the shelf; Who 11 go out to succeed him first, And next succeed himself; The Peerage does not hold his peer ! Mild, gentle, and urbane! Well send across the|main at once To beg him to remain ! hey did. he huge Great Western ship Was very soon to start; But still might not arrive before Lord Durham should depart. So, as the steamer Liverpool Would first be on her way, Not to " miss stays," they sent by her. Imploring him to stay ! he Liverpool— the Liverpool— From Liverpool forth went: OConnell blessed its sails, and prayd That they might have no rent! Whigs hoped that theoer-mastering winds Its masts might never split; The Tories praised its Durham coals, Because they came from Pit. Away she went—no boiler eer . Such steam got up before! She staggerd through the seas like one Already half-seas oer! Her rapid paddles made the wave One briny sheet of foamShe seemd determined to get out Ere Durham could get home! But woe ! ven steam cannot control The spirit of this age! Macready got a Tempest up On Coven t-Garden stage, The jealous winds beheld amazed False elements wake fear, And bellowd, " Blow us if we dont Get up a tempest here." And so they did ! Poor Liverpool About the seas they drove. ill she all the Whig coves undid, By getting into Cove ! he way she made, away was thrown,— Untackd was all her tack ! As if shed been commanded by The famous Captain Back! No doubt she soon will sail again. With all her wrongs redreisd ! But my Lord Durhams ship meanwhile Her homeward path hath pressd I And when the proud and haughty peer Does homage at the throne, The ministers may well get up A tempest of their own !