Literature.  he Popular Encyclopaedia. Part 44. Blackie and Son, Glasgow and Edinburgh. his cheap and useful publication is now drawing to a close, but it is the intention of the proprietors to add a few supplementary numbers, in order that, when completed, it may contain the latest information on all scientific subjects, with the addition of biographical notices of eminent individuals recently deceased. he contents of the part before us include a brief history of Spain, its literature, and arts; and accounts of other countries of less note. here are also several articles of biography, and many on scientific subjects. But the most valuable is that on the steam-engine, which is well written, and is illustrated by numerous engravings and wood cuts. Prison Scenes and Narrative of Escape from France during the late War. By Seacome Ellison-. London, Whittaker and Co.; Liverpool, Alarples and Co. his is a volume which will well repay the trouble of perusal. A more interesting one we have seldom read ; and the author assures us that it is "a plain unvarnished narrative of facts as they occurred, without amplification or embellishment." We are only surlirised that Mr. Ellison could not be induced to pubish it many years ago, the events recorded having taken place between the end of 1803 and the spring of 1809. At the period when the narrative commences the author was master and part owner of a brig, which, on her return from the bay of Honduras, was captured by a French frigate, and our author was conveyed to Verdun, where he was detained for four years and a half. owards the close of that period, encouraged by the success of some of their fellow captives, who had escaped, he and others resolved to make an attempt. heir plan exhibits equal ingenuity and resolution, but the details are too long for insertion here. hey succeeded in effecting their escape from the fortress, though not without considerable risk ; but on the twelfth day after their escape they were discovered in the town of Charmes and carried back to Verdun. From thence they were taken to the fortress of Bitche. here the author and his friends formed a plan to escape, and succeeded in leaving the place, but a few days after *ards were again taken and compelled once more to re-enter the fortress. heir next attempt was more fortunate, and our author and five of his countrymen, divided into two parties, succeeded in crossing the Rhine, and, after many adventures, for their difficulties did not cease on their leaving the French territory, they arrived in England. he account which the author gives of the various expedients to which they had recourse, first to effect their escape from the prison, and afterwards to traverse an enemys country without detection, is highly interesting, and presents us with a striking illustration of the unconquerable spirit and untiring resolution of British seamen. he work is Vieatly printed, and is illustrated with several well executed engravings.