HOUSE OF LORDS—Tuesday, June 7.  Mr. Brogden, Sir G. Hill. Mr. Evans, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Estcourt, and others, brought up the General Warehousing Bill, the Colonial Postage Bill, the Scotch Prisoners Aliment Bill, and a great number of other bills. Upon the motion of the Earl of Shaftesbury, the Van Diemans Land Judges Bill, the Irish Joint Stock Manufacturers Bill, and some other bills, were read a third time, passed, and messaged to the House of Commons. merchant and factor bill. he Earl of Liverpool moved the second reading of this bill. A petition in favour of the alteration now proposed he, some time ago, had the honour of laying on tbe table, signed by almost all the respectable merchants of the city of I/ondon, by general merchants. East India merchants, West India mer chants. North and South American merchants, those who traded to the North of Europe, to Spain, Portugal, and the Levant, so that there never had been among merchants a more general concurrence in support of any measure. he noble eaTl spoke at considerable length in support of the measure. he bill was read a second time, and ordered to be committed on Friday. he Canada Corn Bill was reported, and ordered to be taken into further consideration this day week. equitable loan bill. Lord Dacre moved the order of the day for hearing counsel on this bill. Counsel were called in, and when they had concluded, a loptr conversation ensued on the question, whether evidence should be heard on the part of the Equitable Loan (oinpany, to prove that the tendency ofthe companys operations would be beneficial to the public, and that the pawnbrokers required to be counteracted by a more humane society. he  Lop.d CnANCEi i.ort thought that thie first question to be dis. post.t of was, whether this company was a legal company or not. It was confessed onall hands thtit its legality could not be supportedbefove it had executed the deed of partnership. It was still a question whether the execution of that deed made it legal. he legality of the body must be proved before evidence could be heard as to its utility ~ Another conversation ensued between their lordaftips, which ended by the Lord Chancellor informing counsel that the evidence tendered to prove the beneficial nature of the company could be received. His lordship then asked the counsel for the bill whether they were prepared to produce the deed to prove the company a legal body, it being understood that if they did not, they must take the consequence of not being viewed in that character in the future proceeding of the house.—( ounsel, having hesitated, were allowed till five oclock tomorrow to decide. —Adjourned.