COURT OF KINGS BENCH—Monday, Jan. 16.  REFUSAL TO PAY RATES THE KING V. HE JUSTICES OF LIVERPOOL.  Sir James Scarlett said he was anxious to press upon the court a motion occasioned by a disputed construction of an act of parliament passed last year, for regulating parochial rates in the town of Liverpool. he dispute between the parish officers and the inhabitants had led to the suspension of civil process, to the great injury of the poor. he motion he had to make was for a Mandamus to the justices of Liverpool, commanding them to issue their warrant to Mr. Ellis, one of the parish officers, for the purpose of distraining for poor rates, &c. he parish of Liverpool contains about 30,000 houses, 15,000 of which are rated as low as £12. he consequence had been that the rates were seldom paid by the poor occupiers. he act of parliament of last year, which was passed to afford the parish a remedy., provides that in all cases where houses are assessed at £12, the lessee or owner shall, after the passing of the act, be assessed to the poor and church rate. It appeared by the affidavit in support of this application, that after the passing of the act, a vestry meeting took place, and a rate was made ; but instead of being a rate for the poor and church, it was for the poor and county rate. he owners of £12 houses refused to pay the said rate, on the ground that the act only made them liable to pay the poor rate and ecclesiastical rate. Having resisted payment, they were summoned before the magistrates, who decided that the law was with the defendants, and therefore they would not issue distress warrants. Sir James Scarlett contended that the act never was intended to absolve the owners and lessees of £12 houses from the payment of county rates. On the contrary, the county rates were always paid out of the poor rates. Lord Tenterden—All the difficulty is occasioned by the form of your rate. Sir J. Scarlett^—The town of Manchester and other populous places are in the same predicament. All is paid out of the poor rate. Mr. Justice Littledale—The act of Parliament may not authorise this rate in the form presented. Sir James Scarlett said it was desirable the court should come to a decision on the subject. he justices would act upon the suggestion of the court. Lord Tenterden—You may take a rule to shew cause why a Mandamus should not issue to the justices, commanding them to compel the payment of the rate. Rule to show cause allowed.