HE KINGS BIRTH-DAY.  Our most gracious sovereigns birth-day was celebrated in this town, on Monday, with the usual demonstrations of loyalty and attachment to the throne. he day was ushered in by the firing of cannon and the ringing of bells, and from various commanding eminences, flags, with appropriate inscriptions, were exhibited. Precisely at half-past ten the detachment of artillery, consisting of two guns, under the command of Major Emmett, and the 15th Hussars, commanded by Lieut.-Col. Lord Brudenell, marched into St. Anns-square from their barracks at Hulme, and formed in two lines fronting each other, the Artillery occupying that portion of the square next to Exchange-street. Shortly afterwards the 91st Regiment of Foot, commanded by Lieut.-Col. Anderson, at present stationed at the Regent-road barracks, marched into town, and took the station prescribed for them, lining the foot£aths on each side of Market-street, and extending from >ucie-place almost to High-street. At eleven oclock the civil authorities, consisting of the boroughreeve and constables, the magistrates of the division, the churchwardens, &c, took up their station between the two files of Hussars in St. Anns-square, and after a mutual salute, the procession moved off in the order stated in the programme which we published last week, along Marketstreet, Piccadilly, and London-roa;l, to Ard wick-green, and after passing round the southern extremity of the green, the cavalry and infantry formed in line on the eastern side. he Artillery, which took its station at the north end, then fired a royal salute of twenty-one guns, every seventh discharge being followed by a feu de joie by the cavalry and infantry. he ceremony terminated with three hearty cheers, the bands playing "God save the king." he procession then returned to town in the same order, but varying the route, down Mosley-*treet, York-street, and King-street, and on arriving at the Town Hall, the civil authorities formed in the piazza of that building, and after swluting the military, the procession separated. he day was rather cloudy, and a very slight shower fell during the time occupied by the ceremony ; but notwithstanding this, the concourse of spectators alog<y the line of the procession, as well as on the green, was hi/mense. We have not heard of the occurrence of a single accident.