Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, JULY 26. City, Twelve oclock—This is the settling day in the English money market: and, from the great rise in Consols, it has been looked to for some days past with great interest and apprehension The latter has been, in some measure, realised by the declaration of two defaulters for very large differences : one, in particular had speculated to a great amount for a fall. his, of course, has exrited great dismay ; but has not been followed by any others of consquence—lt has proved a " near" acconnt; and the consequence of this has been a very considerable rise in the price of stock Consols with the dividend, being quoted as high as 88j|, or 87.1 L exdividend for the next account. Money stock has likewise risen very con" siderably ; the 4 per cents, ot 1826 are quoted as high as 103 and 3 per cents, reduced are 88. he market at present wears a very firm appearance—Foreign stock generally looks better this morning • Russian bonds are quoted as high as 945, and Brazilian are 6oY Colombian have likewise rather improved, 34 being the present quotation, and Mexican stock is as high as 70$. Spanish bonds wear an exceedingly heavy appearance, the price being 9to 9i but with very little doing. In other securities, up to the presenthour, there is nothing doing worthy of comment. Haif-pmt Twelve.—Several other defalcations have taken place since our first account, and the market is in a most agitated state. It is supposed there are Bears to the amount of a million of stock Consols nave been depressed by the exertions of a strong party to 87, ex. dividend; but this is supposed to be only a ruse de guerre preparatory to a strong attempt to get out; and, consequently, an advance is looked for. We have received Brazil papers to the 18th of May. hey contain a despatch to the Brazilian government signed Villabella, which describes the condition of the Buenos Ayres army in Randd Oriental as entirely deplorable ; and encloses an address from Smarts, the general of that army, intended as a confirmation of that description, which, however, the address by no means confirms. Frankfort papers to the 18th instant have reached us this morning, but they do not contain any news of the slightest interest.