A REMONSTRANCE. What bard art thou so apt to grace. With poetrys pure breath, The icatterer of the human race ! he trafficker in death ! Are plunderd shrine, and midnight chain— A shrieking citys blaze— And beauty, in polution slain, The themes for poets praise ? Marengos hero then recall! Dethrone the crowned of earth ! Shake oer a weeping world deaths pallCheer Horrors brood to birth ! While startled bones of millions rise All ghastly as they stood When thunderous battle mock d the skies, And lained down human blood! Whilst hoa y heads, all stark and gashed, Throng shore and town remote, As when the Gallic armies plashed In carnage to the throat! His meteor-sceptre pledge once more; Napoleon to the van I Come, quaff the reeking cup of gore, And shout for slaughter !—Man. Another Austerlitz demand, Another Jena claim; And desolate the groaning lan 1 To write one despots fame ! Let cen the pyramids afford A verse for his renown : But speak not of brave Sidneys sword, That swept the invader down I Sing not of Moscows flaming tide— The fiery brands which hurled The chainer of the nations wide, The scourfer of the world. With rout and havoc from their shore ! o Cossack hate consigned :— Famine and frozen wastes before, Bones and the wolf behind. Let net Trafalgars chief, who died, A moments thought beguile; Nor laud with British heart and pride The Baltic and the Nile! Leave Nelsons glorious flag unsung, And Wellington unwreathed; Their fame with which all Europe rung, For his— whod best neer breathed ! And gloze the tyrants guilty mood, And wail his hapless cause: That Sylla—in his thirst for blood ! hat Draco—in his laws ! Mourn him who to the conscript gave HeHrt-broken France a prey; And sill could outraged nature brave With homicidal sway ! Yes, wake the throb of sympathyBid maudlin tears reveal How much men grieve for Europe freeHow miss the tyrants steel! And make the conscious sea blush gore In shame for Nelsons land ; Make earth, revolting, lift once more Her blood-accusing hand ! CHARLES SWAIN.