Loss of the Barque Manchester.—The Calcutta Commercial Advertiser, of the 24th September last, contains an account of the loss of the barque Manchester, of Liverpool, Frederick Wilson, commander, on her voyage from Bombay to Liverpool. She was laden principally with cotton, and left Bombay on the loth July; she proceeded, all well, till the 29th, when In latitude l« 47 N., longitude 84°40 E., with a heavy head sea, she was suddenly found to be making a great deal of water, though she had been, up to that time, remarkably dry. At first one pump w as kept going, but ultimately it was found, that continual working at the pumps did not keep her free. It was soon conjectured that she had started a butt forward, but it was too low to be seen, and the vesse was making eight feet of water an hour. Endeavours were made to reach the Isle of France, but, on the 2nd of August the pumps refused to suck, and the water in the hold bad been increased to sixteen feet. As the ship was sinking the boats were got out. he captain, one passenger, and seventeen men got into the long boat, the first mate and four men to the gig, and the second mate and four men to the jolly-boat. With two casks of water and one of bread they shaped their course for Ceylon, only the poop of the barque being visible when they put off from her. he gig proving leaky, the men iv her were removed tei the jolly-boat, and she was abandoned. he two remaining boats continnede their course for Ceylon till the morning of the 4th August, when, judging it practicable to fetch that island, they stood for Penang. be long boat, with the captain, first mate, a passenger, and seventeen of the crew, reached Penang on the morning of the 22nd of September. hey had lost sight of the jolly-boat in a squall; and, up to the latest hour, no tidings had been heard of her, though one of the government gun-boats had been out on her probable track for the purpose of rendering her any assistance. hose in the long boat had, on the morning of their arrival, breakfasted on their last biscuit.— Tbe most kind and humane attention was paid to the distressed mariners at Penang.