HE ALLEGED MURDER AT BLACKBURN.  VERDICT OF MANSLAUGHTER.  he adjourned inquest on the body of Wm, labourer, Dorset-street, Eanam, Blackburn, who was alleged to have been murdered, was held at the Blackburn Townhall, yesterday, before Mr. Hargreaves, coroner. Mr. Clough watched the inquiry on behalf of the six prisoners Urias Hinchcliffe, V7m. Brocklehurst, We Long worth, Saml. Counsell, Richard Seed, and John HalliwelL, who were present during the Inquiry. he only material evidence which fully explained the cause of the death of the deceased was given by Wm. Brocklehnrst, one of the prisoners, who said he was at the Live and Let Live beerhouse, Eanam, on Saturday the 30th inst. About nine oclock the deceased and Wm. Longworth went into the house, and deceased sat upon the fender in the kitchen. he deceased hail no drink, but Longworth had a glass of ale ; whilst he was drinking it something was said about a pigeon flying match, and a dispute took place between Longworth and Counsell, which resulted in a fight. Whilst this was going on Hinchcliffe and the deceased commenced fighting. hey fell on the ground, and whilst in that position Hinchcliffe, who was uppermost, struck the deceased two or three times at the side of the head. Brocklehurst and Seed interfered and pulled Hinchcliffe off the deceased, who then got up, whereupon Hinchchffe again struck him upon the side of the face. Seed then seized Hinchcliffe again and pulled him from the deceased, and the whol* party, with the exception of the deceased, went into the beerhouse, The deceased, it appeared, walked into an entry near where tbe affray took place, and was subsequently found dead at the bottom of some steps in this entry. he medical testimony attributed death to an injury on the temple ; and Mr. Clough, for the prisoners, argued that this injury might have been caused by the deceased falling down the steps into the entry.—The jury, however, returned a verdict of " Manslaughter" against the prisoner Hinchcliffe.