HE MANCHESTER CHURCH-RATE.  ( From the Blackburn Alfred.) his triumphant termination is a double victory, especially when it forcibly reminds us of the system of vain boasting and empty braggadocia which was resorted to by the horde of agitators in this town and elsewhere. What say our chapel friends now? Is not "the church-rate question settled for ever, in so far as Manchester is concerned ?" Are they not now thoroughly convinced of their own utter insignificance, in point of numbers and respectability, when compared with the members of the established church? In all the struggles which have taken place in England, have they been successful in one out of ten ? hese are questions which we respectfully submit tothein. But we do humbly hope that the more honest dissenters will be heartily ashamed of their Manchester auxiliaries ? Will not—and we ask the question in sober earnestness— will not a blush of shame tinge their cheeks when they are informed that considerably above sixteen hundred bad votes were given by their friends 9 We propound this question, not in a spirit of exultation—not in bravado—nor is it dictated in a spirit of factious joy—we ask it in emphatical earnestness, and conimisseration for their discovered fraud and treachery. Is not this simple fact an undeniable proof that the baffled and contemptible faction will resort to any means, however dishonest and disgraceful, to effect a mere temporary and pretended triumph. mporary and pretended we call it—because the dishonest and worthless crew of the alleys and lanes of Manchester knew full well that a scrutiny would place them in their proper place at the bottom of tbe poll list. his consummation they expected, and, therefore, dreaded. Hence the determined opposition evinced by the Salford worthies ; hence their reluctance to produce their books ; hence their lies, and quibbling, and fraudulent equivocation ; the public knew that they were guilty of perpetrating lies, and quibbling, and fraudulent equivocation, and, therefore, they were allowed to retain their books, in expectation of obtaining a victory without their aid. How far their anticipations were realized we have already told. " Rate-payers," quoth their declamatory hand-bills, " we have settled the question of churchrates for ever." hey have settled it—amusingly settled it ; but it is such a settlement as will silence their vulgar and noisy pretentions " for ever."