PERISHED IN THE SNOW ON DARTMOOR.  A heavy fall of snow took place somewhat suddenly on Dartmoor on Saturday night in the neighbourhood of Prince Town. Snow drifts were raised of from five to eight feet deep in some places in the roads. Mr. Sweeney, a schoolmaster belonging to the Dartmoor Convict Prisons, about thirty years of age, who had been recently appointed, and had arrived at Prince Town about six weeks ago with his wife and child, left Tavistock on foot shortly after eight oclock on Saturday night on his return from Plymouth, where he had been on business. Snow was then falling, and a high wind was blowing, and as Sweeney ascended the high lands of the moor his exposure to the tempest increased. He was also impeded through carrying with him an umbrella and a gun. o reach Merrivale-bridge, a distance of four miles and a quarter, he took two heurs and a-half, and he there went into a public-house, and had some slight refreshment. he gale by that time had greatly increased, and Sweeney was urged by the landlady to remain there the night. But wishing to push o» to his family he left at about eleven oclock, and was not afterwards seen alive. he following morning (Sunday) he was missed from his duties at the prison, and a party of the officials proceeded towards Tavistock to make inquiries. On their arrival at Merriv de they obtained news of him, which induced a rigid search of the road, and in the evening Sweeneys body was found in a snow drift near Pilebrook, a stream running out of a mine, about three quarters of a mile from Prince Town. he snow was about four feet in depth, and against what was the protected hedge of the road during the storm. he body was in a crouching position, and it is supposed that the deceased kept close to the hedge to protect himself from the storm, and, exhausted by his seven mile walk, succumbed to the cold. A dealer in moor turf, named Edwards, had the same night a narrow escape from a similar fate. he old man had been out with a horse and cart and returned on Saturday night over the Devils bridge, on the Downsland Barn road. he horse and cart reached home without him, and his wifes fears being aroused she went in search. At the top of the Devils bridge hill, on the road to Prince Town, and at about 200 yards from the village, she found her husband holding on to a gate incapable of moving and almost insensible. She immediately returned to the village for assistance, and he was promptly rescued. Proper measures were taken for his restoration, and they were fortunately successful.  (From the Western Morning News.)