HE CATTLE DISEASE.  LORD LICHFIELDS INSURANCE SCHEME. An influential county meeting was held at Stafford yesterday, and was attended by the Earl of Lichfield, Earl Shrewsbury, E. Buller, M.P., A. Wise, M.P., General Forrester, M.P., J. Hardy, M.P., and about 100 agriculturists. he attention of the meeting was confined to the consideration of the best means of organising an insurance scheme whereby owners of cattle could be indemnified from losses by the disease. he Earl of Lichfield proposed—"That a mutual assurance society should be formed for a limited period, in which fixed premiums should be paid for fixed values set upon animals; the landowners to pay at the rate of one-half such premiums into the society for the relief of their tenants." He suggested that the compensations to be paid for the several classes should be £10, £7, and £3. his proposal was adopted in principle, and a committee was appointed to decide upon details and carry it out. It was empowered.to effect insurances for higher rates than £10; but in those cases the landlords were not to contribute. he duration of the society was limited to 12 months. he Earl of Lichfield calculated that there are 90,000 head of cattle in the country, that 30,000 would be insured, and that a final call of Is., 25., and 3s. upon the several classes, with 50 per cent from the landlords, would raise £5,625.  he cattle plague has broken out at the Hague. he professors of the veterinary school at Utrecht have been ordered by the government to inquire into the disease. A meeting was held at Derby yesterday, and attended hy Lord Denman, Mr. Cox, M.P., Rev. R. Chandos Pole, and other agriculturists, at which it was decided to form a mutual assurance association. A meeting for that purpose will be held on Friday. he clerk of the Privy Council has addressed a letter to the Commissioner of Customs, urging increased vigilance at the outports, as a malady bearing a striking resemblance to the disease which is now causing such ravage among the cattle in England has appeared in the Netherlands. It is currently reported in the Netherlands that the disease has been imported from England by cattle returned thence as unsaleable. At the Chelmsford Petty Sessions Mr. J. Seabrook, of Old Lodge Farm, has been summoned for infringing the recent order in council by not causing a cow which had died of the cattle plague to be buried on his premises. he prosecution was instituted by the committee appointed in the neighbourhood to endeavour to stop the progress of the cattle plague. It seemed that a cow, belonging to the defendant, died of the cattle plague on the 21st, and the defendant sent for a knacker, who came and flayed the animal on the farm, and took it away in his cart for the purpose of being boiled down. he defendant pleaded guilty, but it was urged on his behalf that he was not aware of the order in council. He|was convicted in the mitigated penalty of £10, with 19s. costs.