LAYING OF THE FOUNDATION STONE OF A NEW CHURCH AT PADIHAM.  Yesterday was quite a gala day at Padiham in celebration of the laying, by Captain Starkie, of Huntroyd, of the corner stone of a large and commodious church to be built on the site of the old parish church, the latter edifice having been pulled down on account of being too small for the population of the parish. A procession was formed in the Arbory, on the grounds leading to Huntroyd, and proceeded through the town to Padiham Bridge, and then returned to the church. A platform erected at the east end of the site was occupied by ladies, and the ground around the site was occupied by clergy and other gentlemen. he brethren of the various masonic lodges were represented. he stone was laid with the usual ceremonies. Mr. W. Dugdale, of Simonstone, presented Captain Starkie with the silver trowel, which bore a suitable inscription ; and stated that the new church was to be erected by tbe parish, as a monument of grateful respect to the memory of his (Mr. Starkies) esteemed father, the late lamented Le Gendre Nicholas Sfcarkie, Esq. he mallet of mahogany was presented by Mr. Elijah Hilone. he bottle laid in the cavity of the stone on which the corner stone was laid contained the current coins of the realm, a copy of the Prayer-book, and a copy of the London Times, the Manchester Courier, the Preston Herald, Punch, and the Burnley Advertiser. he plate with which the cavity was covered, was laid by Mr. R. hompson, J.W., and bore the following inscription : "The corner stone of this church, dedicated to St. Leonard, was re-laid by the patron, Le Gendre Nicholas Starkie, Esq., M.A., Captain 2nd 0.L.M., P.G.S., W.E.D., C.L, on the 28th day of June, 1866, being the 29th anniversary of the coronation of Queen Victoria." here were also the names of the Bishop of Manchester, the archdeacon, Rev. J. H. Fox, perpetual curate of Padiham, Rev. R. N. Whitaker, vicar of Whalley, Messrs. J. Ashworth, R. Riley, E. Waddington, and H. Roberts, churchwardens of Padiham ; Mr. R. hompson, secretary ; Mr. John Waddington, treasurer; William Waddington, architect, Padiham. After the conclusion of the ceremony the clergy and other gentlemen, the building committee and others, in all about 90, took lunch at Huntroyd. he children of the Sabbath schools in connection with the church were regaled with coffee and buns at the Padiham school, and afterwards proceeded to the Arbory, where they enjoyed themselves in various games.