SELECTIONS FROM THE COMIC PAPERS.  (From, Punch.) ROSE IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS. Sure, if "by any other name" a Rose as sweet would smell, A Rose "by any other name" should also fight as welL And if he do, still may we sing "Old Rose" for many a year, Wondering how he comes " Lord," for whom tis hard to find a peer; "No Rose without a thorn,"tis said, but in the Lords may you Still find a seat without a thorn, my trusty, tough Sir Hugh. he Only Defence for the Cat.—The British soldier does not know when he is beaten. Pollo(c)ks "Course of Time."—The late Chief Barons life, and long may it last. Interesting Intelligence.—lt is said that an exhibition of converted rifles will shortly take place in Exeter Hall. As it Should Be.—What a satisfaction it must be to the Empress of the French that the Emperor has given up the idea of paying a visit to Nancy ! Shakspere upon Rifle Shooting.—" Whats in an aim. he power of winning the Queens Cup. Once more unto the breach, dear friends !" And be sure you bring your breech-loaders. Similia Similibus.— Homoeopathy was tried for the cure of the cattle plague, and proved unsuccessful. It has been suggested, and the suggestion sounds well, that an infinitesimal scraping of cheese rind would probably be found as effectual a homoeopathic remedy as any other for the rinderpest. Horse ON THE Table.—lhe hrppophagists carry-tbeir fondness for horseflesh to an extreme. Accordingly, perhaps they will soon have their horse served up with horse beans, not to mention horse-radish, which, of course, it must require even more than beef. he dessert which follows the favourite repast of the horse-eaters will certainly not be complete without horse chestnuts. (From Fun.) HE BANK RATE. By a Chorus of Co.s. We may break. We may chatter like daws if we will-— Ten per cent (which it rose) tis, be hanged to it, still. A Riddle for the Risible.—Why is a smile invariably behind the time ? Because its a little laughter. A Water-Spout.—The King of Ava, numbers among his many high-sounding titles that °f "Lord of the TwentyFour Umbrellas." We suppose, when the imperial revenue suffers from a fall, he puts them all up.