HE RIOT AT THE CATHOLIC CHAPEL.  he Rev. John Dowling, the Roman Catholic priest, estimates the damage at the Catholic Chapel to be between £2OO and £3OO. He states, in reference to the not on Tuesday (St. Patrick’s Day), that the principal part of the damage was in the house. he windows were perfectly riddled, and the shutters and furniture broken. I saw the crowd occasionally from the bedroom window, but it was dangerous. here were a great many of them, and they were riotous and tumultuous. he stones that came in were some of them twice as big as my two fists. hey carried glass and framework into the middle of the room, and still they kept showering them in volley after volley. here was decidedly resistance shown to this mob The fixtures, furniture, and goods in the house, carpetting and doors were damaged. Referring to the attack on the following night, Mr. Dowling says—On the Thursday morning, I found that every window on two sides of the house was broken, and the stonework in front of the house was indented a quarter of an inch in some places and some of the quoins at the corner were chipped from the violence used. hree of the windows were so broken as to render it necessary that they should be replaced with new ones. he house deor (the principal one) was much damaged, the garden all trampled upon, the trees broken, and the gate broken also. Inside the house the carpetting and furnture in both bedrooms were spoiled, and some vases worth 14s. or 15s. each were broken The doors and shutters and Venetian and cane blinds were also broken in several places. Nearly all the chapel windows on one side were broken, and the frames smashed by the heavy brickbats thrown against them. Four panels in the principal entrance door of the chapel were broken out entirely, and the porch badly splintered. he ruggetting in the chapel, which was quite new, was cut and damaged very much by the broken glass and missiles thrown through the windows. Several pews were damaged, and several ornaments upon the altar and upon the side altars were also broken. he whole of the windows on one side of the school were broken, and the terra cotta ornamentation broken and disfigured. Several large and small plaster of Paris figures in school were broken entirely. —Mr. Dowling has been bound over to support an action against the hundred of Salford for the recovery of the damages out of the county rate.