HE LIBERTY OF THE SUBJECT  he conduct of the people on the ice in Regent’s Park, previous to the awful catastrophe of last week, proved that the old grammatical example, “ I will be drowned, and nobody shall help me,” might be a solecism in speech, but is a downright fact in action. From the statements made nt the inquest, by parties who had been in the danger, nothing could exceed the recklessness of the public, One medical student boasted that he and two companions went on the ice after having been warned of its dangerous state, and, insulting the man who warned them, amused themselves with jumping across" a rope laid upon the ice to indicate its frailty. Another visitor, a careful father who took his boy to skate, saw a placard warning people off, and, after inquiring what it meant, went on with his boy and was nearly drowned. Another got up a quarrel with an iceman who was breaking up a dangerous part as the only way of preventing people from venturing on it. he most remarkable evidence was that of the Secretary to the Humane Society. He proved that the people wilfully damaged and destroyed the apparatus for saving life, and that the police were powerless to protect them. He applied to Sir Richard Mayne and Mr. Walpole, but they said they could do nothing. Mr. Walpole told him that he could be prosecuted for taking a man off the ice, however dangerous. He asked for a police force to clear the ice by six o’olock in the evening, but was refused; in fact, Mr. Walpole would do nothing. If it had been a mceting’of respectable working-men, to discuss their prospects of enfranchisement, he could and would have disEcrsed that with baton and bayonet, but when it ecame a question of preserving sixty or seventy lives he could not interfere with the liberty of the subject. 1 be Humane Society has no longingfor arbitrary power, but they would like the waters in the metropolis reduced in depth, and floored with concrete, and power to remove all persons from the ice ten minutes after the ringing of a bell when the ice is in a dangerous state. he recklessness of life which has been manifested is not peculiar to English people, for a nearly similar accident occurred in Paris, but there without loss of life, owing to the previous precautions taken by the authorities. What is peculiar to England is the senseless opposition to social order indulged in under the plea of liberty, which in au«h cases is but aaothor mmo for Uwuse, and,  he unrestrained power of pursuing one’s own pleasure at the risk of injury and danger and discomfort to others. It must also be admitted that the people have no small share of that taste for sights where human suffering and the possibility of fatal accident give piquancy to the spectacle, which must be corrected by education where it cannot be restrained by law.