HURST.  Hurst General Relief Committee.—On Thursday 1,304 persons wer* relieved by this committee, at a cost of £B2 9s. sd. Hurst Relief Committee.—This committee held their 75ih meeting on Tuesday evening last, when there were 198 oases relieved, at a cost of £32 17s. 7d.; school fees for Higher and Lower Hurst schools, £1 I Os.; total, £34 7s. 7d. Sudden Death.—An inquest was held on Tuesday at the Bull’s Head beerhouse. Broad Oak-lane, near Hurst, before Mr. Rutter, coroner, touching the death of Ellen Jane M‘Caw, wife of Robert MCaw, power-loom weaver, who died on Saturday last during confinement.— In consequence of the complaints which had been made by the husband against Mr. Galt’s assistant, who attended the deceased, a post mortem examination of the body was made, the result of which showed that the complaints were entirely groundless.  Hurst Brook Schools.— Mr. J. Whittaker’s Liberality.—Last night the annual Christmas tea meeting was held in the Hurst Brook New Connexion Methodist Sunday school, when some 600 people sat down to an excellent tea. Afterwards they proceeded to the new chapel erected through the efforts of Mr, W. Pennington, where the chair was taken by John Whittaker, Esq. he Rev. Mr. Ward was present, and took part in the proceedings. he Wesleyan body having thrown cold water on chapel undertaking, Mr. Whittaker has purchased the building, and handed it over to the New Connexion body, and at his suggestion it was last night denominated Hope-street Chapel. hat gentleman, in the course of his address, referred to the distress, and stated that the General Relief Committee of Hurst had received and expended, up to October luet, the sum of £5,424. hat included the grants from the Manchester Central Relief Committee and all other sources; while, out of his own pocket, and within the same time, he had expended £5,789 in doing his part to relieve the distress which bad, and now was, to a great extent, existing amongst them.—(Cheers.) He had been told that the greatest existing want was something for the feet, and he had accordingly ordered 1,000 pairs of clogs to be made and distributed amongst the more needy in Hurst.—(Cheers.)—The meeting was of an interesting description, recitations and singing being in the ascendant.—A hearty vote of thanks was awarded the chairman at the close.