Manchester, TUESDAY, OCT. n. ——■<« »►— MARRIED. On Thursday last at the Collegiate Church, Mr Wm. Leech, to Miss Ann Tides, ot Hank Top Lately at Warrington, Captain John Baxtndalr, of the sloop Venus, to Miss Margaret Tunstall, both of Warrington.—On the-29th ult at Cheatfle, Mr John Gnmshavv, of Bramhall, to Miss Alice .Smith, of Stockport.—On the 3d inst. at Coosnargh, Mi Geo. Parker, of Wliittmgham, aged 58, to Miss Sw„rbrick, of the same place, cged -s—Last week, Chevalier Dosterval, a French emigrant, to M. > Parry, with a fortune of -20,0001.—On Tuesday last, at Pcntrich, in Derbyshire, Mr R< l>ert Parker, of this town, merchant, to Miss Grace Strellev, daughter of Robert Strelley, Esq. of Waingroves, near Derby.—On Thursday last, Mr Aaron Kerry, of this town, to Miss Jones, of Runcorn.—On Sunday at the Collegiate Church, Mr F.dwaul Platt, of Bolton, manufacturer, to Miss Parthema Slater, daughter of Mr Jo-eph .Slater, of High-street. DIED. On Monday last, much regretted, Mr John Bit* lington, of Wood-street—On Tuesday, Mrs Tuer. wife of Mr i’uer, of Sugar-lino,—On the -fifth of September, at Lisbon, of a putrid fever, the Rev. homas Coupland, of the Pnory, Chester.—Lately, in Gray’s Inn, Loudon, Joseph Lowten, Esq. a gentleman of high honour and strict professional mte grify. His character will long be justly revered. —On Tl ursday se’nnlglit, in Plumlre-stieet. 1 is-t-pool, William Marchant, aged one hundred an} ttven yean. He lived in four reign-, and remembered one of Ins youthful companions enlisting iu the service of yueen Ann. His widow is in her nm-t,-ninth year; and they were the parents of nineteen ch Idren. none of whom are known to be living—On the -Ith inst. aged 81, much regretted, the Rev. Mr Armit«t. ad, of Gre>s;ngliam, in this county.—On the tith inst. at Goosnargh, Mr John Coupe, aged S(i. It is supposed he was seized with a fit on his return home from Inglewlnte on that afternoon, as he was found dead on the road next morning.— l.ately, Mr James Wild, cotton manufacturer, of Mumps, mar Oldham.—A few days ago, at Kltham, in Kent, Mrs Strounge, widow, aged c-e hnhed uni eleven near,. —On the 4th inst. the Rev. William Webh, Vicar of Ash borne and Rector of Mapleton, both in the county of Derby, and also Rector of Swetenham, in Cheshire.—A few days ago, at Berries, in Norfolk, John St-jbbings, husbandman, a ;ed on, hundred uni seven yean and eight month,.—Oil Monday last, greatly re-pected, aged -JO year*. Mm Alice Caton, daughter of Thos. Caton, E.q pf Middleton Brows, n**ar Lancaster.—Yesterday (Monday) Mr Dennis Brow, one of the singing men ot the Collegiate Church; a worthy honest man, and vciy much respected by all who knew him.