BIRTH. On Thursday the 26th ult. the Lady of Sir Kun•ret ord Ho kynns. Bait. Harewood, Herefordshire, wis <afeiy delivered of a daughter.—On the 31st ult. the La"dy of Wilhraham Egerton, Esq. of Tatton Paik, Ci eshire, of a ton. MARRIED. On *he 2ftft ult. Mr W. Hunt, of Rochdale, to Misl Jenkinson, of Burscough.—A few days ago, I Mr Waliis, of Robertson and Manleys Company of Comedian--, to Miss Jackson, late of the Theatres Eoya!, York and Hull.—On the 22d ult. r.t Zt. }at\\n* Church, Mr Richard Holme, of Welhtiie, riear Ashton-under-lyne, to Miss Ann Hague, daughter <if the late Mr Orlando Hague, of Taunton, near t>e same place.—On Wednesday sennight, at the parochial chapel, in Todmorden, Mr Thomas Red-  t arn, of Rochdale, to Miss Ann Healey, of Small ; Bridge, near Rochdale.—On Thursday last, Mr Tho- j in B uton.of Walton, near Preston, to Miss Elton, of S iltord —On Thursday last, at Eccles, Mr James Johnson, of Worsl-y, to Miss Betsey Osbaldeston, of t e same place. — On the 18th ult. at St Johns Church, Mr John Crompton. of Farnworth, to Miss F.I Irtbeth Heywood, of Salford.— On Wednesday the -5th ult. at StocKport, Mr John Sidebotham, of Hauzhton, to Miss Thorneley, daughter of Mr Samiel Ihorneley, of Werneth, Cheshire. DIED. On Monday the f.Oth ult. at Walton, Cheshire, Mr Thomas Knowles, jun. aged 27.—Lately, at Newchurch, in Ros-end de, in the 70th year of his age, the Rev. W Thacker, formeny master of the grammar school there.—Tuesday sennight, much lamented by those who had the pleasure of his acquaintance, lames Chetwynd, Esq. second son of Sir George Cherwynd, Bait of Grendon, in Warwickshire, and Brocton, Staffordshire.—On Thursday the !>6th ult. Mr Joseph RadclifTe, of Ashton-underline, cabinet-maker, in his 5id year He died suddenly on his way home from Mr James Newtons warehouse—On Saturday sennight, at Hartlebury Castle, aged 88 years, the Right Rev. Richard Hurd, 1_>. U. Lord Bishop of Worcester.—On Tuesday last, at Warrington, sincerely regretted by all who knew him, Thomas Lee. Esq