From the Evening Posts and Daily Papers, April 15 From the JAMAICA GAZETTE. KingJ},n, January 29. ON Saturday the Brig Lucy, Capt. Lawlefs, arrived at Black River, with a Flag of Truce, in 17 Days from the River Mitfillippi. By the arrival of this Veflel, we arc enabled to acquaint the Public from Authority not to be quedioned, that the defection from the Spanilh Yoke among the native Indians in America, has fpread even to Louifiana and the two Floridas. About the 18th of December, 2000 Choctaw and Chicktfaw Indians fuddenly rofe in Arms, and furprifed the Spanilh Poll upon the Illinois, the Garrifon of which, confiding of 70 or 80 Men, they Scalped and Butchered without mercy 500 of the Creek Nation, in concert with a conlklerable Body ol Refugees from Georgia, and the neighbouring Provinces, had about the fame Time alfo committed Hodilities, and were in full march to lcize upon Penlacola, which fiom the weak and | lickly date of the Garrilbn it was much feared woud enevitably fall into their Hands. About three Days before the Lucy left the MidiiTippi, feveral Expretfcs had come to New Orleans from the interior Country, with ihocking Accounts of the Devadations of the Savages.  j In this criucal and dangerous lituation of Affairs, Don Eltevan Miro, Lieutenant-Governor of Louifiana, had embodied Part of the Militia, with whom, and 300 Regulars, he cut off from the 500 which compofc the Garrifon of New Orleans, he was preparing to march to attack the main Body of the infurgents. he greated Terror and confirmation reigned among the Spaniih Inhabitants of Louifiana. he fubdance of the above intelligence is true. Kingfton, Feb. 8. On Wednefday laft arrived at Port Royal, His Majedys Ships Barfleur Malborough, Alfred, Valiant, Belliqueux, Prothee, Prince George, and London, under the Command of the Right Hon. Samuel Lord Hood. In the Forenoon his Excellency the Governor, and Rear Admiral Rowley went on Board the Baiflcur to Pay their refpects to His Royal Highnefs Prince William Hemy. IBs Royal Highnefs Prince William Henry, who arrived with Lord Hood in His Majedys Ship Barfleur, went Yederday evening on Shore at Port Royal, accompanied by his Lordlhip, Admiral Rowley, and feveral Officers of the Navy, to view the Fortifications. Advices are received from the Windward idands, that Admiral Pigot, who is cruizing off Martinique with twenty-two Ships of the Line, has captured three French Tranfports from Barton bound to Port-Royal, having eleven huudreel Troops on board.