ODE fir TITS MAIEST** BTMTH-Pir^^at. By HENRY JAMES PYE, Kfq P. ENO more the thunder* «f **>« plain. he fiery battle’* iron thower. mfick, drown the duteous llram That greets our Monarch*» natal hour; Peace, (oaring high on (eraph wings. How (trike* her viol’* golden firings; RefpouCve to the tbniling note, Syniphonions drain* of rapture Bost, While grateful myriads in the P«an join, . And hail her angel voice and blefs her form divine. hrough many » whirlwind’a blalt The rage ol elemental war. Stern hcialds of the opening year, Sol urges on his burning car; Though dark the wintry tempeft lowers, Though keen are April’s icy ihowars, Still (kilt his flaming couriers rile, Till high in June’s rclulgcm flcei, ’Mid the blue arch of Heav’n he vidlor rides. And Ipreads of light and heat the uuextinguifiTd tile*. Glorys true Sons, that hardy race. Who bravely o’er the briny flood. Smiling ferene in danger’s face, Uncheck’d by tempeu. fire, and blood, Britain’s triumphant flag unfar/d, The terror ot the wat’ry world. Now freely to (he favouring gale Of Commerce, fpread the peaceful (ail, And friendly waft from every (bore Where Ocean’s fubjedt billows roar, The gilts of Nature, and the works of toil, Produce of every clime and every foil. he Gee,us of the Siller lllcs On the rich heap exulting (miles, “ Mine the prime (lores of eaiths rcmoteil zone, “ Her choicell Iruitsand flowers, her treafures, all my own. _ Nor leconfl you ’mid glory’s radiant train, Who o’er the tented field your cnligas fptead ; Whether oo l.incclles trophied plain Before our ranks fuperior numbers fled ; Or on (erne’s kindred toad Ye crulhd (uv.fion’s threat’uing hoft. Or on fam’d Egypt’s fultiy fands fhe banner tore from Gabis’s veteran bauds; Your finewy limbs with happier toil, Now »itl your country’s ferti e foil; Mow with keen feythe the fragrant vale. Or whirl aloft the founding flail; Or bow with many a (lurdy llruke, King of our groves, the giant oak ; Or now, the blazing health betide. With all a Soldier’s honed pride, To hoary Sires and blooming Ma dens tell, Of galtant Chiefs who fought, who conquer’d or who fell. Yet in the arms of Peace reclin’d Still flames the free, the ardent mind; And iboud aga n Scdit’ons roar. Or hodile inroad threat our Ihure, from Laboui’s field, from Commerce wave, Eager would ruh the ilrong, the brave. o form an adamantine zone Around the Patriot Monarch’s throne. But long, with Plenty in her train, May Concord fpread her halcyon reign, And join with feftive voice the lay finer re, Whirls lings the aulpicious morn to Bitain ever dear.