HE SURRENDER OF PEKIN.  HE WAR IN CHINA.  FLIGHT OF THE ESIPEKOft.  he Chinese mail has brought the most exciting news that has ever reached these shores from China. Pekin has fallen, without a blow having been struck in its defence, •cd the allied flags now wave from the walls of the Imperial capital. he following are ile•ailed accounts of these most stirring and important events. extracted from the I hind Mail and Nortk China Herald, and from the letters 01 correspondents at the seat of rear : [Frotu the China Mall.l The intelligence from the seat of we, t. of the highest importance. wo of the gates of Pekin are in our hands. Mr. Harry Parkes and Mr. Loch have been safely returned to us by the Chinese. he army of Sau-koalinsin is still in the field. he Emperor has tied to Tartary. Pekin hos submitted to us. he wintering of the whole force either there or at Tien tom is now resolved on. In our lastOvedand we mentioned that the allied army was in a hostile attitude, seven or eight miles from Pekin waiting for the seige guns, and demanding the release of the captives who bad been taken. here does not seem to have been any change in the position of matters from the ?.2.tid of September till the 3rd of October, when an advance was made in search of the Tarter army, which only resulted in a few pickets of the enemy being seen and driven back• On the 6th a further dunes resulted in an earthen work near Pekin, where no defence was made, being taken by our troops and the Yuengmin-yuen, or summer palace of the Emperor, was taken and completely looted, affording immense spoil. he chief share of the plunder appears to have fallen to the French, who had the first ransacking of the rich ornaments, jewels, end clocks, and watches, the rich robes and embroidered silks of the Son of Heaven ; but a quantity of the treasure which was taken is to be divided between both French and English. Some privates are said to have sold their shares for about 30.000 francs. he entire British share, including both treasure and private loot, is estimated at about 90,1100 dollars. Nest day,in reply to a demand for the release of the prisoners, Messrs. Parkes and Loeb were given up, together with a French officer and or eight prisoners. _  On the 12th everything was prepared for the first great event of the war—the assault or the occupation of Pekin, the unvioteted capital of China. he siege guns and other artillery were in a position to bombard the town, unless it should be surrendered by noon of the 13th ; and the following general order was issued by Sir Hope Grant, for the disposition and control of the forces under his oominand : Haan QUAITERS !MORS PtiCIN, Oct. 12, 1860.