ORIGINAL LITERARY NOTICE.  he Bibliographers Manual, being an Account of Rare, Curious, and Useful Books, published in, or relating to. Great Britain and Ireland, from the Invention of Printing: with Bibliographical and Critical Notices, Collations of the Rarer Articles, and the Prices at which they have been sold in the present Century. By William Thomas Lowndes. London: Piceewno, 1828—9. Parts 1 to 7. We have long felt persuaded of the extreme utility, as well as pleasure, inherent in the study of bibliography. Amidst the mats of books, good and bad, which issue every year from the numerous presses of this country, it is .utterly impossible for those who live beyond the immediate sphere of the literary market, to form any idea of the comparative merits of different publications, without the guidance of a pioneer more experienced than themselves. Our principal Reviews are of some service in this respect; but besides the frequent partiality of their judgments, they pretend to go no further back than the current day, and give no information of the pecuniary value or external properties of the volumes they record. o understand the improvements made in successive editions, with the consequent depreciation of preceding ones, is sometimes a more important enouiry than at i first sight might appear. Hume materially injured his i History of England, by consulting, unconsciously, an imperfect edition of Whittlock’s Memorials ; and Robertson himself complains of the additional labour he had been forced to undergo in consequence of the imperfect state of the “ science of books” in his day. Some writers have pursued a subject, already made public,—while others have neglected the best sources of information, from the same ignorance of bibliography. But it is particularly to country readers, to those who can afford but a moderate library, and who would therefore wish to have all their little good, that a work of this nature must prove most requisite. hey are protected by it from the artifices of dishonest plagiarisms and piracies, and are taught not only to distinguish between the different degrees of literary excellence, but between the qualities of various editions, their ptices, and peculiarities. Mr. Lowndes’s model is the famous “ Manual” of Monsieur Brunet, a work of amazing circulation in France; and he has admirably modified his original, to suit the circumstances of his own country. We have read the portion already published, amounting to somewhat more than half the entire work, with considerable attention; and are ready to pronounce it not merely the best, but the only effort of the kind worthy of notice, that has yet issued from an English press. As a book of general reference it is indispensable not only to authors, booksellers, collectors, but to every one pretending to, or desirous of, any acquaintance with the literature of his age and country. o know the contents of our best authors is a noble acquisition, but one of immense and laborious research : to know where to look for what we want, is almost as useful, and at least an important stage upon the road to learning.