LONDONi—MONDAY, May 4.  he Court.—His Majesty, attended by Sir Herber Taylor, arrived in town at a quarter-past one oclock on Wednesday afternoon from Windsor Castle. he King held a Levee at two oclock. Senhor Aranja Hibeiro, Envov from the Emperor of Brasil, and Namik Pacha, on a Special Mission from the Ottoman Porte, had each an audience to take leave. Nourri Effendi, Ambassador from the Ottoman Porte, had an audience, and delivered his credentials to his Majesty. Count F. de Marmier and the Marquis de Prashir were presented to the King in the Circle by the French Ambassador. Khalesa Effendi, Secretary to the Turkish Special Mission, was presented to his Majesty by Namik Pacha. A great number of Addresses were presented to his Majesty by various Noblemen and Gentlemen, praying that the Protestant Church might be preserved inviolate in Ireland, as well as in England, as ny law established. Many others were also presented in favour of his Majesty’s late Ministers ; others expressing alarm at the present aspect of public affairs, and praying his Majesty to call to his Councils such persons as would steadily maintain those sacred Protestant principles which seated the House of Brunswick on the Throne of this Kingdom.—Sir John Koss presented to the King the Narrative of his last Voyage in search of a North-West Passage. In consequence, we regret to state, of considerable, although, it is hoped, temporary indisposition under which her Majesty has for several days been labouring, the Queen did not, as was arranged, accompany her Royal Consort to town on Wednesday ; and the Drawing Room, as well as the intended visit to the Kings Theatre, were Necessarily postponed. We understand that her Majestys complaint is a violent cold, attended with inflammatory sore throat: but we are happy to bear that the Royal Patient is somewhat better, and it is thought that the discontinuance of the north-east winds w*ll speedily restore her Majesty to her accustomed health. Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cambridge will be conveyed from Calais in the Firebrand or Lightning Government steam-packet. he Duke of Cambridge is expected to arrive at Frankfort on diplomatic business.