EFFERVESCING CHELTENHAM SALTS,  mape rnoM the waters of Jlfr. hompsons Montpellier Spas at Cheltenham  H E Public are respectfully informed that these Salts are the only genuine production of the Cheltenham Spa Waters, a fact which is well known to every person who has visited (Cheltenham. hey contain according to the Analysis of Sir Humphrey Davy, and Messrs. Brande and Parkcs, all the Chalybeate and other essential properties of the Spa Waters at Cheltenham. _ These Salts possess an effervescing principle, and in this respect differ only fro:u the Cheltenham Salts hitherto sold to the Public. he Heat. Cheltenham Salts in Crystals and Efflorescence, as wdl as the above, are to be had of the Sole Agents, Messrs. BUTLER, Chemists, Cheapside, Corner St Paul’*, London ; Sackville-street, Dublin ; and Princes-street, Edinburgh ;--retail of the principal Medicine Venders, and at the Montpellier 1 ump Room, Cheltenham. Caution.—ln future the above Cheltenham Salts cannot be genuine unless the Government stamp with the words 44 Butler, -CiiEAPsiDt,’’ is attached to them.  A NEW SHAVER; or.. SECOND EXPERIMENT. A Monkey, who shaving first tried on himself And cutting bisjoiW, the mischievous elf Resolv’d to embrace opportunity pvt, And operate next on the beard of the Cut! he place of a mirror adapted to suit. here stood in the room then a high-polish’d Boot, In which \\V,.Rnr,N-s Jet of pre-eminent hue Display’d the line forms of reflection to view.— Now seizing poor Puss, to the bright Boot he bore her, (The Monkey, her shadow then gleaming before her,) And answer’d her struggles with chatter aud blows, Her phi: while he soapd from her ears to her * osa ! he Cal, thus essaying in vain at resistance. And mewing, in pitiful plaint, for assistance. With wonder the same operation now saw. Perform’d in, or shown by the Jet of eclat / In front of the Boot then, as if to explain it. he method of shaving, how best to attain it. he act interspersing with grin and grimace, The Ape cleard the Cal of each hair on her face ; And strange though it seems, yet the frolicsome elf Was mneb more successful on Puts than himself. he 3haver adroitly concluding his scraping,— The Sha»ed with the loss of her whiskers escaping I The Monkey in triumph the parlour now sought, And Col and bright Boot to a company brought. Who saw what this barber had then been about, And hail’d his essay with a rapturous shoot Of mirthful surprise ! he strange incident hacking The merits of Wxßrxn’s unparaUeld Blacking!  his easy sliintng and brilliant Blacking, ptepareil by Robert Warren,3o, Strand, London; and gold in every town m the in bottles,6d.,lod., 12d., and 18d. each; also, Paste Blacking, ii pots, 6d., 12d., and 18d. each. ctrana. Be particular to enquire for Robert U arben s, JO, atrann, all others are counterfeit.