day laws.  Mr. Hume presented s petition from some operatives at Manchester, complaining of the Corn leiws, as injurious to their interest, as rendering their wages inadequate to their support, and praying generally for relief. •Mr. Wells denied that the present distress arose from the operation of the Corn Laws.  Mr. I). W. lIAttVF.y entered his protest against any suclt doctrine as that of the hon. member for Maidstone. If the Corn Laws did not lend to raise the price of bread, ami keep up high prices to the landlords, why, he asked, were they continued ? he high price of bread greatly aggravated the public distress, and the repeal of the Corn Laws would materially tend to diminish it.  Mr. W. Whitmore said that he was no advocate for the Corn Laws, but he would not attribute the present high prices to the operation of the law as it now existed. He rather thought the scarcity of the harvest had produced it. He did not believe that the present distress arose from the system of free trade ; for while the silk weavers were out of employment, so were the cotton weavers, and nothing new could be said as to the importation of cotton.  Mr. H. hompson- said the present distress arose from the fact of shutting our ports against foreign corn for a series of years, and prohibiting the foreigner from growing a steady supply for this market. It was not the tax of last year which produced the distress now existing, but the operation of the prohibitory laws which had been for years fn existence. He hoped this house would be crowded with petiiinns for a repeal of those obnoxious laws. Mr. M. Fitzgerald complained S( the system of striking the averages, and hoped some reiurdy would be applied to it, as the returns now made had a manifest tendency to deceive the people. Air. Secretarr Peel said, if a better system was rendered necessary it win) 111 he attended to by his Majesty** ministers. Air, Home said that the corn monoply was now starving the people, and should be abolished as soon as possible—Ordered to be printed.