POOZE;—WEDNESDAY, Aug. 24.  Our young townsman, Mr. homas Bell Salter, after pursuing bis professional studies at Guy’s Hospital, London, and subs- quemly at the Universities of Dubiia, Paris, and Edinburgh, obtained the degree of Doctor of Medicine at the latter place on th« first of the present month ; he also passed his examination at the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, and received the Diploma of the College. Lord Segr&ve arrived in our harbour in his beautiful yacht, on .Monday, and was welcomed by a merry peal from ihe bells. he concert given at our Town Hall, on Thursday, by Bochsa, Ole Bull, Curioni. and Miss Bruce, was attended by most of the respectable families of the town and neighbourhood, who were highly gratified with the musical treat catered for them on this occasion. hese celebrated artists, now engaged on a professional tour, left this town for Weymouth and Dorchester; and some remarks on their delightful performances appear under the head of the latter town.  Arrived.—Montague, Clemas ; Otter, Dunn ; Jessy, Old is ; Hope, Shaddock, from Newfoundland—Livelf, Robbins, from Swansea—John and Sarah, Holmes, from Goole—Elm Grove, Williams ; Friends, Roberts; John, Brown ; Wesley, Hall; Aran. Jones ; Richard and Mary, Hescroff; Three Brothers, Hancock, from Southampton—William and James, Shepherd; Po, Riches, from Exeter—St. Andrew, Brown, from Bridport—Good Intent. Williams; Dove, Blundell; James Manlaws, Wills; Duke ot Gloucester, Harding, from Portsmouth-Ant. urpin, from Dartmoutli—King George, Me Forlin ; Marshal Blucher, Derham ; Thomas, Williams ; Betsy, Davis; Claudia, Havard, from London —Julianna, Rowland; Walter Johnston, Roberts, from Weymouth—John, Fox, from Bangor— Bore ; Trial, Edmunds, from Portland—Reaper, Anstey, from Sunderland—Albion, Fore, from Topsham— George, Dugdale ; Carbonear, Watts; Perseverance, Ford, from St. Andrews—George, Bully, from Jersey Union Packet, V\\ illiams, from Bristol—Speedy, Wills, from Dublin. Sailed James Manlaws. Wills; Good Intent, H illiams ; Dove, Blundell; Duke of Gloucester, Harding, for Portsmouth—Penman Castle, Roberts; Catharine, Parry; Jane, Boyce ; Riches, Johnson ; Abel, Lewis; Spring, Brock; Fancy, Bunt, for Liverpool— Richard and Mary, Hescroff; Three Brothers, Hancock; Eleanor, Bore, for Southampton—Georgianna, Oreggory, for Byidport— William Kelson, Lockyer, tor Hanburgli —I- 0.. Edwards; Harmony, Cains, for London—Ant, Turpin, for DartmouthLively, Robbins, for Sunderland—Providence, Davis, for Hull.