(& USE TURNER’S BLACKING.  NOTICE.—How delightful to see a Lady or Gentleman’s beautiful black shinine; Boot or Shoe reflecting every surrounding object in TURNERS UNRIVALLED BLACKING. his invaluable composition may be had wholesale and retail at iheDorsot County Chroniclefand Somersetshire Gazette Office, and retail of all respectable shopkeepers,iu stone bottles, at 6d., Is., and JBd. each.  A CHALLENGE. I challenge the world to produce, if it can, A Blacking thats equal to Turner’s Japan ; For like crystal it shines, while it softens the leather. And makes your boots proof ’gainst the wind and the weather. Why the praises of Turner’s Japan should 1 tell. When those who have used it must know it so well ? Why should coachmen still brush at old harness in vain, When this blacking can give it fresh lustre again? For, without second sight, 1 can prophesy soon, That you will see it adopted by Foot and Dragoon ; For you scarcely can tell, when drawn up on parade. Which glitters the brightest, the boot or the blade. he Gentlemen too, who would boast their attire. And feel for respect so profound a desire. May hear the fair Ladies, if Turner’s they use, Cry, How charmingly polished his manners and shoes? Ye Authors and Poets who gladly engage To reform and instruct this degenerate age. Use Turner’s Japan and your fame will take root, Then your genius will shine as well as your boot. hough Davy and Home have astonished the world. And the chemical volume of nature unfurl’d. Vet in chemistry surely there something was larking, Till Turner discover’d his wonderful Blacking. Who do not feel pride in a Wellington’s name. When the whole of the universe rings with his famet So are Turner and Wellington famous afar.  One the hero of Blacking, the other of War!! Gentlemen may observe tnat this Composition, when used fot their Gig and Carriage Harness, after one or two applications will produce a brilliant, rich, glossy black lustre, and at the »aine time act as a preserver of the leather. HICJiARU TLHNER.