LES PASTILLES MAIITIALLES DE MONTPELIER, Or, Aromatic Lozenges of Steel,  ARE a discovery of the first importance to the present and succeeding ages, their happy effects being equally sudden, certain, and permanent; so diffusely salutary, that while they give tone to the nerves, and health and vigour (o the entire frame, they impart a general warmth through die whole system, and exhilarate the animal spirits in such a manner, that they may fairly be snid to re-animate nature. For those diseases occasioned by debility, relaxation, prostration of strength, or want of tone in the nervous system, they are. recommended with the utmost confidence, as the most agreeable, safe, and infallible remedy that ever has been, or perhaps ever can be discovered by the researches of science ; they act not as a temporary stimulus, or by irritation, but by gradually and effectually strengthening and renovating the constitution, exciting the healthy action of, and imparting increased energy and vigour to every part of the human frame : they restore the languid, debilitated, nervous, and relaxed of both sexes to sound and vigorous health. When aversion to exercise, loss or depravity of appetite, and pallid countenance, indicate approaching consumption, the delicate female will be restored to health and society by the benign influence of this medicine.  Prepared by the Proprietor, and sold wholesale and retail by his Agent, Mr. Gifford, lOi, Strand, London, in boxes at 7s. and 225. each ; also at the Dorset County Chronicle Office; and by Davis and Son, Chemists, Dorchester ; Bnlgin, Bristol; Cruttwell and Meyler, Bath ; and the most respectable Venders of Medicine in the kingdom.  Caution.-—Ask for Seddons Genuine Aromatic Lozenges of Steel, and observe his signature on each box. As above may also be had Gifford’s Fruit Lozencfs for Coughs, Hoarseness, and Sore Throats, price Is. 1 Jd. and 2s. per box ; his Antirimous Pim.s, which are universally approved of as an aperient family medicine of the greatest utility ; his Permanent Ink, Oriental Tooth Powder, Concrete Lemon Juice, &c. ike.