WEYMOUTH:—W£DN ESDA V, April 4  Fashionable Arrivals.—Lady Mulcaster. Sir F. and Lady Cooper, Dr. Jcwne, Colonel Cleaveley, Captains Harvey, Scudamore and Alardonuld, Kevs. Mr. Farquharson, Case, Gat ter, Hammond. Wickham, Marinden, Mrs. Wentworth, Brooks, Sandley, Hall, Williams, Golding, Trent, Summers, Rugby, Manington, Norm, Swetland, Mias Floyer, Mills, Lumiey, Hadclilfe, Mr. and Mrs. Easton, George, Walton, Dudley, Bentley, Huntley, Saunders, Young, Mr. Morant, Barnes. Kepton. Milsoin, Walters, Green, Stanley, Newton, Parsons, Otway, Kirkwood, Francis, Hallam, See. See. his day a Meeting of the friends of the Benevolent Society for the Indigent Sick and Aged of Weymouth and Melcombe Regis, was held at the Royal Hotel Assembly Rooms, for the purpose of auditing the accounts, receiving names of new subscribers, &c. &c. which was most respectably anu numerously attended, From the twenty-first Annual Report, which is just in circulation,’ it appears that,during the late unusually inclement and severe season, upwards of one hundred families have had the miseries incident to sickness and old age relieved, and the wants of poverty alleviated by the kind and attentive feelings of the ( ommittee of this excellent society. It is pleasing to record that the funds of the society are improving, and we feel peculiar gratification in noticing, among the many liberal donations which have been made during the past year, that of 2s. from our resffected pastor, the Rev. W. Brassey, from monies placed at his disposal for charitable purposes! Such examples are above comment.  Nottington.—The delightful weather we are now enjoying materially enhances our scenic attractions ; and the forwardness of all the vegetable productions of nature in this locality fully and convincingly indicate the advantages that are here offered in point of climate. he spring fiowers have been in bloom with us for some time, and the hedges are tapidiy giving token of that verdure that w;L very shortly clothe them.