EXETEIi :—WEDNESDAY, AW. B.  From a Correspondent.—The Bishop of Exeter lately collated the Rev. Edward James Todd to the living ot (Jombpyne, void by the death of the Rev. Edward Cook Forward. his is his third collation by lapse within the last month, and will soon be the subject of iigal proceedings, when tome extraordinary facts will be disclosed as regards the law of lapse and the Bishop’s power to distuibtfie rights of patrons. he clergyman presented by the patron to thi* benefice was the Rev. Richard Beadon Bradley, the highly respected incumbent of Ash Priors, near Taunton—[Our Correspondent, on whom wccan rely, assures us of the truth and accuracy of the above statement, or wc should net have inserted it. If the rights of private Patronage be invaded by Episcopal power, iegal proceedings will very soon remedy the grievance ; but we should have thought the Bishop of Exeter too well acquainted with the law of lapse to pres umc to present to any living nut clearly vested in him as Hiocesan. he fairest way of settling the point would have been for the aggrieved parties to apply for Justice in the proper Court, without prejudicing the cause by Newspaper publicity, if right, they would ator.ee have their own restored, and the question being decided vtoukl prevent future disputes—it wrong, they would have brought no odium upon the Church, which must now necessarily be the case, as the statement, which implies censure, will go the round of all the Papers—Ed.]  Municipal Elections.—The Election of Town Councilors tor the city of Exeter to fill the vacancies occasioned by the retirement of those gentlemen whose period of office according to the provisions of the Act expired within the last month, look place on Wednesday last; and caused considerable excitement among our city worthies. he Liberals have added, by the result of this election, one to their former number: seven Liberals went out by turn, and eight have been elected; five Conservatives went out, <md four only have been returned. In the next which is the third year, eight liberals go out by rotation, and four Conservatives; and after that election, six of the present Aldermen go out, and six are chosen by the Council. he Election by the Council of Mayor and Ili«l» Sheriff tor the ensuing year, will take place at the GuildThursday next the 9th instant. A.vminstcr Market.—At a very large meeting of the inhabitants, resident gentry, and agriculturists of the vicinity, it was resolved that the market day of Axminster should in future be on a Friday.