FRENCH BRANDY DISTILLERY COMPANY  HE Directors of this Company having completed their arrangements at No. 7, Smithfield Bars, on a scale to meet the most extended demand, which the price and superiority of their Brandy must necessarily coutiuue to induce, do hereby give notice, that it is their intention to appoint Agents in every city and principal town in the Kingdom, and that they are now ready to receive applications for the same. Persons of respectability who can give unexceptional security for the immediate remittance to the full amount of their orders on delivery, will be furnished with the terras and advantages contingent thereon, by addressing letters (post paid) to the Secretary of the Company. By Order of the Board, Jxinoon : April 3, 1826. . MOAT, Secretary. N.B.—Agents will be supplied on terms that will allow them to sell to Dealers at the Company’s Wholesale Price. Price to the public 16s. per gallon.  HE following COACHES leave the ANTELOPE HOTEL AND TAVERN, DORCHESTER:  he SOVEREIGN London and Plymouth NEW LIGHT POS T COACH from Exeter every evening, fen minutes past nine, and from London every night at half past twelve oclock. he MAGNET LIGHT POST COACH, from Weymouth to London in Fifteen Hours, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday morning at a quarter before 6 o’clock, and arrives in London at 8 the same evening; returns every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, at 7 o’clock the same evening. he WELLINGTON or TOMS’S Weymouth and Bath Coach, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at 9 o’clock in the morning; returns the following days (Sundays excepted) at 5 o’clock in the afternoon.  Not a;countable for any parcel or package above value, unless entered as such and paid for accordingly. JAMES STENT begs leave to return his sincere thanks to tho Nobility, Gentry, Commercial Gentlemen, and the Public in general for the support he has received since entering on the above concern, and assures them that they may rely ou his utmost exertions to merit a continuance of their favors.  BISH,“ the Last Man” who can ever have the honor, singly as Contractor, to submit a Jittery to the British Public, has been more than usually anxious to render this his last Scheme worthy their approval ; Government having arranged the last Lottery of all to bo taken by the Office-keepers who usually bid for a Lottery, and determined that