Court and Fashion.  he Imperial French screw yacht Prince Jerome arrived m the Solent on Thursday morning from Cherbourg, with Pnnce Napoleon and the Duke and Duchess dAosta on board. he yacht anchored in Ryde Roads after disembarking her illustrious passengers. he Royal paddle yacht Osborne, Commander John DArcy, arrived at Portsmouth on Thursday morning from Cherbourg, with his Royal Highness Prince Arthur on board. he Prince landed immediately after the yachts arrival, and proceeded by mid-day train to London. Her Majesty the Queen, accompanied by their Royal Highnesses Prince and Princess Louis of Hesse, Princesses Louise and Beatrice, and Princes Arthur and Leopold, on Saturday afternoon left Windsor Castle, attended by the suite, for Osborne. he Queen will remain at Osborne for a month, and theu return to Windsor, en route for Balmoral, about the 20th of next month. he Viceroy of Egypt, accompanied by his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, honoured Lady Holland with his presence at a beautiful fete given in the grounds of Holland-house, Kensington, on Wednesday. he gardens were thronged throughout the afternoon with a brilliant assemblage of visitors, and anything more picturesque or more varied in its attractiveness it would be difficult to imagine. His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, the Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg, Prince Teck, and a large number of distinguished visitors were present. In the evening the Viceroy was entertained by Lord and Lady Derby at a grand fulldress banquet at the First Lord of the Treasurys official residence in Downing-street. A large and distinguished company was invited to meet his Royal Highness. he banquet was served in the large dining-room, the table presenting a gorgeous collection of plate. Conspicuous were the racing cups along the centre of the table—the Goodwood Cups won by Oanozou in 1849 and 1850 ; the Stewards Cup, Goodwood, 1855, and the Stewards Cup, won by Psalmsinger in 1845. On the sideboard was also the Doncaster Cup won by Canezou, and a rare collection of gold cups won by the earls father and grandfather. Also on the table was the magnificent silver-gilt candelabram presented to the earls grandfather by the deputy-lieutenants of the county on the 50th anniversary of his appointment as Lord-Lieutenant of Lancashire. Later in the evening the Countess of Derby had an assembly, at which a very numerous and brilliant company assembled—including Viscount Hood, Lord and Lady Hylton, Lord and Lady de Mauley and Hon. Misses Ponsonby (2), Lady Rolle, Lady Herbert (of Lea) and Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Lopes, Lady Taunton and Hon. Misses Labouchere (2), Mr. and Lady Anne Gore Langton aud Miss Langton, the Right Hon. Sir Stafford Northcote, M.P., and Lady Northcote, Hon. Hylton Jolliffe, M.P., Hon. John Portman and Miss Portman, Admiral Walcott, M.P., and Misses Walcott (2), Colonel Hogg, M.P., and Mrs. Hogg, Sir Lawrence Palk, M.P., and Lady Palk, Sir Ivor Guest, Mr. Darby Griffith, M.P., and Mrs. Griffith, Mr. reeby, M.P., and Misses Treeby (2), Mr. Floyer. M.P., and Mrs. Floyer, Mr. Sclater Booth, M.P., and Mrs. Booth, Mr. Neville Grenville, M.P., and Mrs. Grenville.