Naval and Military.  he armour-plated screw steamship Ocean, 23, left Plymouth on Thursday to join the Channel Squadron at Portland. he Army and Navy Gazette states that the Duke of Edinburgh will very shortly commission H.M.S. Galatea at Devonport, and that he has selected as his commander the first lieutenant of the Racoon, Hugh Campbell. he Galatea is a frigate of twenty-six guns and 3,227 tons burden. he Board of Admiralty (says John Bull) have finished their official inspection of the various dockyards, and on all hands it is conceded that it has been one of no formal character ; but, as Mr. Dv Cane said, in his manly speech at Halstead, only one feeling animated every member of the Board, viz., to remedy any abuses that may exist, and to make the navy efficient. he great vice, we are convinced, of the Admiralty system, has been that those responsible to Parliament have seen through the spectacles of those interested in maintaining abuses. Sir John Pakington and his colleagues are determined to see into matters for themselves ; and, though they may not be able to make very large reductions in the estimates, they will at least take care that the nation does not spend its money for nothing, but has an efficient navy. Some target experiments of the very highest importance took place last week at Shoeburyness. hey consisted of a trial of steel and Palliser shot and shell against a new target of 8-inch thick armour plates fixed upon a Warrior backing of 18 inches of teak, supported by angle-iron ribs set very closely together. On Thursday a Palliscr shell, fired by tho 9-inch wrought iron Woolwich gun, went completely through this enormously strong mass ; the charge exploded in the backing, but both point and rear of the shell passed completely through. his was a point blank shot; but in another experiment, part of the target was inclined at an angle of 30 degrees, and on this surface the Palliser shot and shell had also the advantage over the steel. Next a solid shot made of old cannon-ball iron, which was fired from tho same gun, pierced the armour and the backing, and protruded in the rear three or four inches. hese two shots confirmed the results of the previous experiments, aud demonstrated that the present Woolwich nine-inch gun will pierce tho armour of any iron-clad afloat, whether of our own or any other navy.