BRIDGWATER.  We are requested to correct an error which appeared in our last, to the effect that Mr. Mole, chemist, of this place, had committed suicide. he paragraph, we presume, was written by our correspondent before the inquest put a different complexion on the melancholy event, for we are given to understand the jury returned a verdict to tbe effect that Mr. Mole " Died of disease of the heart, accelerated by taking a medicinal dose of prussic acid." he unfortunate gentleman suffered from palpitation of the heart, and it appears the dilution which he took, instead of tending to allay the symptoms, actually aggravated the case, and a fatal end was the result. CHUBCH RESTOBATION.—On Thursday last the parish church of Over Stowey, near this place, having undergone restoration, was re-opened for Divine worship. he chancel of the church is now lighted by two beautiful corona manufactured by Singer, of Frome, which was the gift of tbe Right Rev. Bishop Toxer. of the Central African mission. he preachers at the services were the Rev. W. C. Lake, prebendary of Wells, and vicar of Huntspill, and the Rev. W. R. Clarke, vicar of St. Marys, Taunton. he event was the occasion of much rejoicing, and between the services a substantial dinner was given to the working men of the parish, which was presided over by the Right Hon. Lord Taunton. Bbidgwateb Election Petitions.—The General Committee of Elections, Mr. Walpole in the chair, on Thursday appointed the committee to hear the petitions against the return for this borough. here are two petitions, the first being against the return of Mr. Westropp, on the ground of bribery, treating, and undue influence, and the second against Mr. A. W. Kinglake on similar grounds. he committee are Mr. W. E. Baxter (chairman), Mr. J. . Hamilton, Mr. Hardcastle, the Hon. J. W. Fitzpatrick, and Lord H. Scott. Mr. W. Durrant Cooper appeared in support of the first petition; and Mr. Spofforth for Mr. Westropp. Mr. Spofforth in support of the second petition; and Mr. W. Durrant Cooper for Mr. Kinglake. No objection was made to the selection.