WEYBIOIJTII.  Poticia STATISTICS.-By these documents it appears that as to the offences determined sniumarily and number of persons proceeded against summarily before the justices in the year, and the result of the proceedings, the total number of persons proceeded against for offences, marshalled under 23 separate heads, watt 309-275 mules and 34 females—comprising 117 cases of drunkenness and 58 common assaults. Of this 309, 78 males and 7 females were discharged, and 224 persons-197 males and 27 females, were convicted, 55 being sentenced to terms of imprisonment varying from calsodar months to 14 days and under ;157 were fined and 12 were ordered to find sureties or enter into their own recognizance+ to keep the pearls. Of these 224 conviction. 108 were for drunkenness, and in 11l cases, forming the latter number, fines were inflicted. he number of persons taken into custody within the period covered by the above tables is larger than tha of the year 1858-9. By a reference to the cbargt delivered to the Grand Jury by the learned Chairman of the Quarter Sessions at Dorchester laat week, the cause of this increase can now be explained away. he presence of a larger portion of the fleet at Puttland, than has been known in former years, has at times taken place during the present year, and the recently organized Naval Coast Volunteers, borne thither in ships of war, (some of whom when they come on shore appear to think that no jollification is complete unless it ends in a breach of the laws,) may help to account for it; or may not the increase be attributable, as the learned Chairman believes it possible, to the extraorlinary and now increased vigilance of the police, —not that there has been a greater number of crimes perpetrated, but that a greater amount of crime has been detected.  WEYMOUTH PETTY SESSIONS. FlTDAY.—Before the Mayne and Capt. Prow.e. John. Bunn, of Bury-Street, wu brought up na the custody of the police charged pith being drink. and threatening to stab hie wife and adopted daughter. It appears that because p. ia..ner had no supper at bouts, he abused his wale and daughter, brandishing a table knife near them, and throatsued to stab them.—Senteuced to ant weeks hard labour.