CROWN HOTEL, WIMBORNE.  O POSTMASTHRS AND OTHERS. O BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY Ant. ROSSITER, on MoNnAY, the 1 20th et 0008; 1860, the undermentioned desirable stock of  Horses, Carriages, and Harness, The Property of Mr. Edward Bowles, who is leaving on account of his lease expiring, comprisiug the following HORSES : A bay horse, l 5 hands one inch, good in single and double harness; a chesnut horse, 15 hands three inches, quiet in single and double harness ; a powerful bay mare. seven years old, with good action, particularly quiet ii, any kind of barness,and invaluable to an invalid ; a brown more, 15 beside one inch, good in single and double harness ; a dark chesnut mare, 15 hands two inches, good ii, single and double harness ; a black mare, 15 hands two inches, quiet in single and double harness, and a &stride riding post mare ; a grey gelling, Ave years old, 15 bards one inch, quiet in single and double harness, a good hack and hunter, and up to great weight ; a very active brown cart horse, fit fur a miller or brewers waggon ; very powerful grey geld ng, 15 hands, six years old, has been used in double and single harness, and ac, ustomed to carry a post boy ; a very handsome chesnut filly, risme four years old, about 15 hands, with great power, and fine action, by as Arab; a bay gelding, half brother to ditto rising three years old. CARRIAGES A pair horse omnibus, to carry nine inside and six out in good order, with patent boxes, built by Lewer and Co., Dorchester ; a light omnibus for one or pair of horses. to carry six in and three outside ; Shillibeers patent funeral carriage, with everything complete. black harness for ditto, plumes, side cloths, Sic., nearly new ; a pair horse elarence, equal to new; a brougham for one or pair of horses ; • clarence Ay for one or a pair of horses ; • double seated phaeton ; a dog cart ; etc., tic. Four arts double harness, four sets single ditto, post saddles and lesoing barnes. he above stock is justly deserving the attention of postmasters and others, having been in regular work. he sale will comments on the arrival of the 12.15 train at Wimborne. . . .  ----Catalogue may be bad on application at the Hotel, or of the Auctioneer.