HE NEW CENSUS ACT.  he new acts for taking the Census in F.ngland and Ireland next April have been issued. he Act for Scotland has not yet received the Road assent. In the Act for England there are 19, and in the one for Ireland 11 sections. In England the Secretary of State is to superintend the taking of the Census. Every registrers sub-district is to be formed into enumerators divisions, Enumerators are to be sppointed,and householden schedules to be left at all dwelling-houses, to be filled up este all persons abiding therein on the night of Sunday the 7th of April, as to the name, sex. age, rank, profession,or occupation, condition and relation to head of the family, and "birthplace of every living person," and also whether they were any blind or deaf and dumb. here is nothing 10 to " religious profession " in the English Act, but there is in the one relating to Ireland, The schedules in England are to be collected from the houses on Monday, if possible, the Bth of April, and to be corrected if found to be erroneous. he masters of gaols, workhouses, hospitals, &c., arc appointed enumerators for the occasion, and all overseers and other j parochial officers are bound to act as enumerators. I Returns are to be obtained of the houseds poor during the night of the 7th of April, and of all persons travelling or on shipboard. A table of allowance. to the enumerators iii England is to be prepared. and the payments are to be certified to the Registrar-Central. he enumerator and other persons employed in the ettecu• tion of the Act ere authorized to ask the questions directed, and every person refusing to sneerer or willfully giving a lalse answer is to forfeit a sum not exceeding £5 nor loss than 208 ; one hall of the penalty is to be paid to the informer. In Leland the police of the Dublin and constabulary force, with other competent perform, as the Lord-Lioutenant may appoint, are on the Bth of April and one or more consecutive days to visit every house and take an account of the age, sea, religious persuasion, and occupation of all persons, and also bidli in England and I relaud particulars as to the houses, &o. Penalties are to be imposed for not answering or giving false .tairmonts. Roms are to be enforced in a summary manner. ho Census is to be mitt before Parliament within 12 mouth, alter