Literature.  PUBLICATIONS OF THE MONTH. Lodges Portraits and Memoirs. No. LVI. he subjects of this number are Edward Clinton, Earl of Lincoln; John Powlett, fifth Marquess of Winchester; and John Knox. he engravings are executed with ability by Mote, Robinson, and Ryall; the first from the original of Ketel; the second from that of Peter Oliver; and the list from tbe portrait in Holyrood Palace, Edinburgh. here is nothing very remarkable in the history of the first-named of the two noblemen; but in the memoir of the Marquess of Winchester, we have an account of one of the most interesting events of the civil wai, the gallant defence of Basing House. he memoir of the Reformer Knox is a piece of biography which is at once interesting and instructive. Blackwoods Magazine. — The December number contains an article on the question of Irish Poor Laws, which ought to be read by every one who wishes to acquire that information respecting the present condition of the Irish people which will enable him to form a correct view of the subject. It contains much valuable evidence from the reports of the Poor Law Commissioners, and extracts from the work of Mr. Revans. here is also an excellent paper on the " Voluntary Principle," which we strongly recommend to the perusal both of the friends and foes of the Established Church. he paper on M Religious Liberty in France," presents us with some facts relating to the treatment of the professors of the Protestant religion, which prove how little of real liberality is to be found in the present government of France, and will do much to convince the world that Popery is every where the same. he other papers of this number are interesting, particularly the articles under the title of " The world we live ir." and the poetical contributions of Delta and other writers. Frazers Magazine With the exception of a very choice article on " The Radicals, the Dissenters, and the Papists," the contents of the December number of this spirited periodical consist of literary articles. he paper we have mentioned contains an admirable exposition of the character, principles, and designs of the three classes of the enemies of existing institutions, and will repay an attentive perusal. Among the literary contents of the number there are some spirited articles, amongst which is a pungent notice of Mr. Grants " Great Metropolis;" 11 The Statesman," a story by Gait; another tale from the " Remembrances j of a .Monthly Nurse;"a notice of Mr. Ainsworths last novel M Chrichton ;" and some other articles of merit. he " literary character" of the month is Mr. Buckstone, the author of Victorine.