Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28. City, Two oclock.—This is the settling day in consols, which has passed over without difficulty, although the fluctuation during the account has been nearly 4 per cent. he prices have fluctuated during the morning between 84 and 83] ; the latter is their nearest value at present, being the same for money and the account. here has been no real scarcity of stock. A large quantity of reduced was delivered, the present price of which is 84 ; exchequer bills, 55 to 50 pm.; India bonds, 84 to 85—There is scarcely any thing doing in the French securities ; Mexican bonds, 34 to 34}; Russian, !I2 j J,. An express has arrived from Paris ; the three per cents on Tuesday were fiBf. 40c—There is little doing in any of the shares except Brazilian, which at one time reached 52 pm., but have since fallen to 47, the present price. he others remain at yesterdays prices. Quarter-past Two.—Consols 82| 03.  he Kings Health—We have not hitherto noticed iha rumours that his majesty was indisposed, because we thought they were sufficiently refuted by the intelligence published daily of the king having assisted at the councils held at Windsor; of his having received company ; and of his having paid his usual attention to the dispatches transmitted to him from the different public departments. All these acts are totally incompatible with severe indisposition. he fact is, that, except some slight attack of gout, his majesty is in the. enjoyment of excellent health. Yesterday he resumed his drives, and was out in his pony phaeton for three hours Hut it is said that.the Duke of Cambridge is much indisposed ; and that Sir William Knighton is gone to Hanover, by the kings special command, to attend his royal highness. he accounts from Constantinople are of the 2fith January. he Manifesto has been read in all the Mosques, and the Bospborus lias been closed against the ships of all Christian nations. he most rigorous measures continue to be adopted against the Armenians. All efforts to soften them have proved fruitless. he Austrian Minister, DOttenfels, made three demands, appealing to the treaty of Carlowitz, which places the Catholics under the protection of Austria. he Reis Eftendi refused to listen to them. he minds of the people at Constantinople arc described to be in a state of the greatest excitement—and all moderation and judgment seem to have been banished from the councils of the Divan.