Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, JULY 10. pJTV, Twelve oClock The money market has been very much agitated this morning, and tbe sales have been heavy. he appearance of the finance statement, to-morrow, seems much dreaded by the speculators, and many of the leading operators for an advance are evidently backing out. In addition to this, it is said to be a heavy bull account, ar.d that certain parties at the west end of the town have ordered their brokers to sell. his has caused consols for account to drop from 88£ to &7jj, and the present quotation is Two oClock The money market continues exceedingly heavy, and the panic has far from subsided. he present price tot the account is 87J, and for money Bft. Itr the lieavy stocks a similar  decline has taken place, and bank stork has fallen to 200. Exchequer bills remain firm at f!B 70 premium. Quarter before Three—Consols for account have rallied to arid the market is firmer. In foreign stocks there is nothing doing. We have heard, upon what we believe to be good authority, that Mr. Brougham has signified his intention of supporting the present administration—Standard, Wednesday. It is confidently rumoured among the legal gentlemen that Sir John Leach resigns the rolls for the deputy speakership of the house of peers, and that Mr. Brougham goes to the rolls with a peerage in prospect. Mr. B. has certainly been most unaccountably silent in the house for some time past. It would almost appear that his six hours speech had exhausted him for the session, for he has hardly ever opened his mouth since New Times. he account from Newfoundland of the loss of his majestys ships Acorn Contest, and Sappho, is incorrect; but it is feared will prove too true with regard to the two former vessels, as they have been long missing. he Acorn sailed from Bermuda on the 10th of April, tor Halifax, and the Contest from Halifax, on the 13th of April, tor Bermuda, and neither has since been heard of. A violent gale was experienced between Halifax and Bermuda on thelfith of April. Ihe Sapplio, by the last advices, was at Halifax, out of commission.