NEW BAILEY.—Tuesday, July 9.  rnugPT PKHMfl.  A lad, named James Williams, who is no stranger at the New Bailey, was charged with pocket picking. Air. Lowe, a special constable, stated, that yesterday he was looking into the window of Alessrs. Jacksons picture shop, in Alarket-street, when he felt a hand busy at his coat pocket. On turning round, he found that the prisoner had been attempting to extract his pocket handkerchief. He affected not to notice the circumstance, but kept his eye upon the prisoner, who then made a futile attempt upon the pocket of another lover of the fine arts, who was intently studying a very excellent representation of a gaping goose. Air. Lowe then followed the prisoner up the street, and observed him pounce upon Alaster James Hurst, a young gentleman, whose attention had been rivetted by a quantity of dried prunes in a grocers window, and from whose pocket the prisoner very dexterously abstracted a pair of black silk gloves. Air. Lowe then pounced in his turn upon the prisoner. He was committed to the sessions, Lydia Galloway was committed foT trial, for purloining a quantity of cotton cops, from the factory of Alessrs. Harbottle, in which she was employed as a weaver. HURSDAY. ingenious robbery. Four men and a boy being put to the bar, Afr. Alorris, of the firm of Wakeman, Robins, and Co., carriers, stated to the magistrates, that the prisoners were the captain and crew of one of their boats. A day or two ago, while the cargo of the boat, which had just arrived from Ijondon, was being removed into another vessel, for the purpose of being conveyed to Leeds, a quantity of sand was seen to trickle out from what should have been a chest of tea ! his singular phenomenon induced Alessrs. Wakeman, Robins, and Co. to have the chest opened, when it was found that the whole of the tea had been taken out. and that the chest was filled with a mixture of sand and hay, in such proportions as to render it of precisdy the same weight as when it was filled with the tea. In consequence of this discovery, the prisoners, in whose charge the cargo had been, all the way from London, were taken into custody. Mr. Morris further stated, that other parts of the cargo had been found to be abstracted, and he produced an ingenious machine for tapping casks of liquors, which had been foundon board the vessel. As it was necessary that witnesses should be brought from Loudon, to prove that the tea chest when shipped really contained tea, the prisoners were remanded until Wednesday next, to give time for their arrival.