Foreign Intelligence.  Cadiz, Juxe 14.-f.ThaJ Government sends orders by every courier to hasten the equipno£;it of the 3,000 men for the expedition to the Hatvannah, which is to sail from this port. he Government furnishes only the arms for these troops. heir clothing, transport, and provisions, are to be supplied by a private company, at the rate of 50 piastres (250 francs) per man. Paris, July 2—The Courier Francais informs us to-day that there has been a tumult at Toledo ; it learns the event from letters, dated Madrid, the 20th inst We are able to make the Courier easy. We have this moment received letters from Madrid of the 22d. oledo was perfectly tranquil. New York, June 6.—Files of Mexican papers to the 30th of April are received at Philadelphia. he treaty with Great Britain had not been published, and it is said to be unpopular with the people, because it exacted from the Mexican government the free toleration of religion, the cession of the Californias, Sic.; stipulations which are denied in the government paper. he Congress continued to be actively organizing the government. Late and Avtiienticlntellioence from Mexico. —The treaty was not ratified on the 29th April, notwithstanding all the reports circulated in London, that the ratification had taken place on the 23d or 24th April. It would appear that every difficulty which a strong party ot Mexicans, and intriguers from other quarters could throw in the way of the ratification has been resorted to, but, we trust, without ultimate success. he first of the communications before us is dated on the 21st April. It states that so complete was the understanding on the 20th, that the treaty would net be ratified, that the English commissioners, Mr. Moricr and Mr. Ward, transmitted an official communication to the Mexican government, stating in substance, that if the treaty was not immediately acceded to, their authority as commissioners from England must cease; that Mr. Morier would immediately proceed to England with the refusal, and Mr. Ward must quit the Mexican territory as soon as the delicate state of his wifes health would permit. his communication appears to have had a great effect. he letter of the 23d April before us mentions, " that the negociauon lias taken a favourM able turn, and we have do doubt Mr. M. will leave this in a " few days, with the treaty, which is expected to be signed to" day or to-morrow."