IRELAND.  he Dublin papers received diis morning give an accountof the proceeding which took place on Tuesday at the Aggregate Catholic meeting. hey are not of much interest. Mr. OGorman Mahon addressed the meeting, and defended the character of the .Right Rev. Dr. OShaughnessy from what he termed an " audacious slander," uttered in the House of Commons by Mr. Goulburn. " 1 have come," continued Mr. Mahon, " a distance of one hundred and fifty miles from Dublin, in order to attend the present meeting, ar.d proceed then to England, and at the risk of all the consequences attending the displeasure of the house, to resent the calumny against, and vindicate the character of, the injured ecclesiastic." he Dublin Morning Register of Saturday, contains an article, purporting to be from a member of the Catholic deputation now m this country. It describes them, seven in number, to be merrily travelling " in and on a landau," and announces their intention to have " a table at one of the principal hotels in London !" It adds, " No member of the deputation will be at liberty to accept a private invitation." his resolution, we suppose, is adopted to guard against any little treachery that might otherwise be practised. Being thus kept together, they are to refute, collectively, every falsehood as it rises. As soon as a member tells " a bouncing lie," (the expression is none of ours) they are to prepare a " respectful petition, stating the fact precisely as it is," viz. that " a bouncing lie" has been told, and demanding inquiry. It concludes in the following genteel terms: —There will, of course, be a great majority against us on this debate. We have Brownlow, Dawson, ar.d the Orangemen—  North, Doherty, and the hirelings; Peel, Plunkett, Lethbridge, and Robinson, with all the materials of ministerial mobs, and last, but not least, Bankes, Butterworth, and the Saints.:(bid protect us from the Saints ! ! ! " Sir Harry Vane Sir Harry Vane—the Lord protect me," said Cromwell, "from Sir Harry Vane." hese Saints would have joined Cro;nwell against Vane. Catholic Association—The association met at an early hour on Thursday. -Mr. Luke Plunkett proposed that -Mr. Huband should be called to the chair. he proposal was received by the meeting with loud applause. Mr. Huband, on taking the chair, said, from an experience of fifty years in politics, he had formed the opinion that it was not the interest of the Irish, and especially of the Roman Catholics, to wish for reform in the British j. parliament. he secretary read several letters, enclosing subi scriptions ; among others one from Lord Kenmarc, enclosing his I subscription, thac of the Countess Kenmare, Countess de Civrae I (his lordships aunt), the Hon. Wm. Browne and the Hon. Michael Browne (his lordships brothers). Mr. MauriceOConl nell read the amount of rent received for the last week 7421. fid. Mr. M-Dermott was then called to ths chair, and the thanks of the meeting voted to Mr. Huband, for his proper conduct in the chair Dublin Mornin<j Post.