CONTEMPORATY LITERATURE.  he SESSION of PARLIAMENT for M.DCCC.XXV., exhibiting the State oT Parlies and Interests, the Debates and Enactments, and the whole Proceedings of both Houses of the British Legislature during that Period—One volume octavo, pp. 500, London. o every Englishman who loves his country, and wishes to be acquainted with its laws, as what Englishman does not ? his is one of the most important and necessary books that ever was published. We do not, in the mean time, speak of the execution, but of die subject; for if a man can lay his hand upon a single volume of moderate size, and say, u herein I have a faithful outline of every important debate and enactment during a whole Session of Parliament," he is in possession of a fund of information, at once the most essentia] and the most desirable. But in looking into this volume, we find that, just as was desirable, in the first one of such a series, it contains all this and something more. It begins by a very clear and impartial analysis of the different interests and influences by which the conduct of Parliament is affected; then it gives a clear and comprehensive view of the evidence on the state of Ireland; an impartial abridgment of the great debates on the Catholic association and the Catholic question; a statement of the arguments on all the public measures proposed and not carried; the substance and probable consequences of every public measure, and a classification of the private bills ; together with an analytical list of the House of Commons. he whole must have been the result of very <rreat research, and it is executed with a spirit and a freedom from bias and prejudice by no means usual in publications upon political subjects. he title-page bears that it is to be continued annually ; and we hesitate not to say, that if experience is added to the ability and candour with which the present volume has been constructed, the series will be a parliamentary history of great value, and will rank high among the recordsof the time.