Political Notices.  HE REV. MR. KENNEY, AND THE JESITTS. (From the Palladium.) We believe it is in the recollection of our readers, that about two years ago the Jesuits succeeded in ensnaring a distinguished Roman Catholic priest from his friends in Dublin, and secretly conveyed him to their establishment at Clongowcs, county of Kildare, where he was forcibly detained, because he had expressed his sentiments rather freely on some doctrines of the Church of Rome, and his determination to throw off the trammels of his slavish and degrading religion. Fortunately for this poor man, Sir Harcourt Lees, whom neither danger can appal, nor power seduce, heard a rumour of the base transaction, and instantly, with his usual decision and judgment, adopted means to recover and, if possible, save his life. After great and laborious research he traced the priest to the South Friary in Cork, where he had been removed previous to their sending him to the Inquisition at Rome ; but the terror of the Habeas Corpus, in the hands of the dauntless champion of our church, soon procured Mr. Kenneys liberation, when he came over to this country and conformed to the tenets of our reformed church, w hen he was taken under the protection of some of the distinguished Prelates of our establishment, and is now an able and zealous Protestant clergyman. he Jesuits being thus frustrated in their designs, caused a report to be circulated in Dublin, that the Rev. Mr. Kenney died in great distress, and that in his List moments he called for a Catholic priest. he reverend gentleman has, however, addressed a letter from his residence in Carburtonstreet, Fitzroysquare, London, dated May sth, 11125, to Sir Harcourt Lees, refuting the calumny of his second conversion, and proving thai he is alive ar d well. he letter to the worthy baronet was published, together v> ith the above, in the Palladium—The society are again taking root in Ireland. A large and magnificent college for Jesuits, (says a Go/way pajter) is now nearly finished in this town ; the chapel is budt in the form of a cross, each of the aisles being about 100 feet in length. hat part of tbe building which is intended for the accommodation of the Religious, is most conveniently arranged ; and the whole is surrounded by extensive and tastefully laid-out gardens, in which are a variety of bowers, baths, and grottoes, etc. all profusely ornamented with a multiplicity of cut-stone crosses of various shapes and sizes, and decorated by figures, that to us appeared to resemble very much the Chinese characters that we have sometimes seen on ornamented tea-chests, and may, we suppose (for we do not profess to be acquainted with the tactics of the society), be intended hieror/lyphieally to convey some religious instructions. As soon as the entire edifice, with its various outworks, is completed, it is intended, we understand, to be occupied by some ofthe gentlemen of Glengowes, who will, no doubt, undertake the education of the youth of Eyrecourt and its vicinity.