HE LIVERPOOL MURDER.  EXECUTION OF GALLAGHER.  At twelve oclock at noon on Saturday, Thomas Galla*her was executed at Kirkdale Gaol, for the murdt r of his wife. It may be remembered that the unhappy man was tried, convicted on the olearest evidence, and senttneed to be hanged at the late assizes. Gallagher, who was about 40 years of age, waa a native of Dublin, and by trade a shoemaker. At about two minutes before twelve the condemned man appeared upon the scaffold. His face waa very haggard and ghastly, but he struggled to maintain firmness. He cast a peculiar glance at the sky, and his face was contorted for a moment, a. if in the agony of supplication. Calcraft drew the cap over Gallaghers faoe, and adjusted the rope, shook hands with the wretched man, and retired. here was a considerable pause, during which there was an evident mani citation of subdued excitement; a slight shriek arose from the people as the drop fell, and the hands of the culprit opened upwards and stffened, as if in the act of offering up prayer. His death struggles were few and short, a slight nervous movement of the muscles of the neck and arms being only visible. After hanging the usual time the body was cut down, and in the course of the evening buried within the precinta of the gaol. On Friday, he received tbe sacrament of confirmation at the hands of the Right Rev. Dr. Errington, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Treb zonde. For the last ten days he had entirely abstained from flesh mea , mortifying himself according to the custom prescribed by the discipline of his church. he Rev. Mr. Gibson sUted that Gallagher had been married three times. here are two of hia children by his last wile in the Liverpool workhouse, and one by a former wife, a young woman in service in Dublin. hree pt titions for a remission of the oapital sentence were sent to the Home Office; one from the unhappy man himself, another from his friends in Liverpool, and a trird from some sympathiser, in Dublin. he under-sheriff was at the Home Office on Frid y afternoon, with the view of ascertaining whether the prayer of thess petitions would be granted; but the Home Secretary said the law must take its course. »—