Postscript.  LONDON, THURSDAY, JULY 20. City, Two oclock.—The Funds have been much depressed this morning. he decline in Consols has been about a half per. cent, since the close of yesterdays market, and the present appearance is not very encouraging ; 76| is the nearest quotation of Consols for the account ; Exchequer bills are 11 to 12 pm.; and the new 4 per cent. Scrip \\ dis. to par .The accounts from the manufacturing districts, received this morning, are exceedingly gloomy. A report of an immediate change in the ministry has also been in circulation. —The favourable accounts from South America, received yesterday, have not supported the Bonds this morning. Colombian Bonds have gone back to 32.J, and Mexican to 46.J—The quotations of the remaining securities are merely nominal. he Brazil new shares have advanced to 4}pm. he Anglo Mexican are about 45 dis.; and the United 8 to 10 (lis. Letters from Corfu, of the lfith of June, bring the following news. he Seraskier, Redschid Pacha, having left a garrison of 2,000 infantry and 500 cavalry in Missolonghi, marched, on the 23d of May, with a corps of 6,000 men, to Lepanto, whence he sent his Kiaga Bey against the monastery occupied by the Greeks, situated between and Lepanto. he garrison, which was very small, surrendered, after a short resistance, and several villages about Salona submitted ; hereupon, the Seruskier marched towards Athens. Hussein Bey, one of the two commissioners sent by the Porte, has received orders to attend the Seraskier on his march. Ibraham Pacha, after having dispersed, on the 7th of May, a troop of insurgents, posted on the eminence near Patras, which commands the only road which leads to Calavrita, returned to Patras, and on the 12th of May left that fortress at the head of his cavalry to proceed to Tripolifza. On the 13th he was followed by his whole army, consisting as it is stated, of 14,0,0 men (10,000 Egyptians, and 4,000 Albanians), Calavrita and the neighbouring places submitted on his approach, upon which he continued his march, without opposition, to the neighbourhood of Tripolizza. Here he met with Colocotroni, who, on Ibrahims approach, had hardly 500 men left of the 3,000 that he had previously got together in these parts ; with these few men, Colocotroni fleu to Karitene, leaving tne road to Triptdizza open to the Egyptian commander. After a short stay in that town, Ibrahim Pacha made several excursions to Leondari, Mistne, &c. without any where meeting resistance. According to the latest accounts, he has pitched his camp near Argos, and Nikita, who was in those parts with a small corps, has retreatctl to Napoli di Romania.