HE CHURCH.  GnEAT PItOTESTANT MEETING FOII ADDITIONAL Chuhch Accommodation This important assembly w as held yesterday, in Christs Church, (Belfast,) and in point of numbers, respectability, dignity, interest, and success, has fully equalled every expectation ire had formed of it. We sincerely rejoice at the prospects which this, most valuable meeting opens up to us. Before the meeting broke up, the enormous sum of £4,500 was subscribed on the platform, and that, too, at an hour after many influential gentlemen had gone home, who were unable to wait the termination of the proceedings. Altogether, we imagine there never has been a more important assembly convened in Belfast, or in Ireland, or one which promises to be attended with happier results.— Ulster Timet. he Lord Bishop of Lincoln has, unsolicited, presented the munificent donation of £800, towards the erection and endowment of a chapel of case, at Holbeach, Fen-ends, in his lordships diocese. he late Countess Dowager of Rosse, we understand, left the sum of £6,0()0, three per cents., the annual dividends to be applied towards erecting or repairing episcopal chapels, and assisting in the education of young men, for the episcopal church. In the application and distribution of this fund, the trustees (who are three in number, one of them being the Rev. Mr. Fyvie, Inverness) are instructed, cateris paribus, to prefer the Highlands and Highlanders, the islands of Orkney and Shetland being included.—lnverness Courier. Mrs. Lawrence, of Studley Park, has, with her usual munificence, contributed the handsome sum of £200, towards the endowment of the intended new church, at Wakefield. Lord Dynevor has, with a liberality worthy of his merit, worth, and high standing in society, expressed bis intention of building an additional church in the parish of Llandilo, at a place called Cwin Amman, at ins own expense, and the vicar is collecting subscriptions .owards its endowment, and the erection ot a i essence .or the clergyman.— Carmarthen Journal.