Literature.  he Magazine of Botany and Gardening, British and J Foreign. No. 18._ London: G. Henderson. his is a very cheap and very useful publication if we , may form an opinion of its general character from thenumbe/before us. Besides twelve coloured engravings of rare and valuable specimens of plants, there are engravings of various designs of cottage architecture. he letter-press . contains, besides descriptions of the plates, an account ot the Orchards in Lanarkshire; Letters to a V oung Naturali*; an article on the Dairy Husbandry of Ayrshire ; others on Inclosures and Practical Irrigation and Draining; and other subjects. he Popular Encyclopedia, or Conversations Lexicon. Blackie and Son, Glasgow and Edinburgh. he thirteenth part of this cheap and useful publication,  contains a number of interesting and well-written articles, amongst which may be mentioned as particularly entitled notice, those headed Constitution, under which title is 1 included an account of the various forms of government J at present existing in Europe and America; Continental j System under which the various projects of Napoleon Bonaparte for the exclusion of British commerce from  the continent, and the retaliatory measures of our government, are fully described, with the effects of each— and Cotton, which describes, with great accuracy and minuteness, the rise and progress of the cotton manufacture in Great Britain and the Lnited States, illustrated by official returns of the consumption of the raw material, and cuts representing the process of manufacture. My Daughters Book, containing a Selection of approved Readings in Literature. Science, and Art. By the Editor of the young Gentlemans Book. London : Baldwin and Cradock. We owe an apology to the editor of this entertaining miscellany for not sooner recommending it to the notice of our readers. We understand it has now reached a second edition, an announcement which tells better than any recommendation of ours that its merits are highly appreciated by the public. It consists, as the title intimates, ot selections from works of ability and reputation, of such interesting passages as are likely to be most attractive to the youthful reader ; and these are classed under different heads. hus, under the head of Woman, we have an article on The Influence of Woman from the pen of Hannah More; another on The Relative Value of Good Sense and Beauty in the Female Sex, by an anonymous writer ; a paper on Female Romance, by .Mrs. Sandford, and various articles descriptive of manners, tastes and peculiarities of females in ditf?rfnt countries. Lnder the head of Literature {•collected a variety of pieces in prose and verse, some moral, some amusing, and most of them more or less instructive. Cnder the head Music we have a variety of anecdotes of celebrated composers ; another division of the volume is occupied with remarks upon Drawing in all its branches, and anecdotes of painters. In the scientific department we have descriptions of various interesting natural phenomena; arid the work concludes with a collection of amusing scraps, under the head of Loose Pearls. In a word, this volume contains a fund of rational entertainment, which cannot fail to make it extensively popular.