NEW STATE APPOINTMENTS.  We give the following as among the numerous on (tits of the hour:— The Duke of Montrose is to be re-appointed Lord Chamberlain. It was said that this office had been offered to the Marquess of Hertford, and declined Lord Byron and Lord Napier, lords of the bedchamber Duke of Gorden hi the household—Duchess of Gorden, mistress of the robes—General Macdonald, adjutant-general Colonel G. Fitzclarence, deputy adjutant-general The Earl of Errol is to be master of the horse to the queen Miss Courtney Boyle is to be one of the maids of honour Four peerages, viz., Admirals Otway, Botham, Blackwood, and Sir Charles Pole The Hon. Colonel Fox, son of Lord Holland, and son-in-law of his majesty, is to have the first vacant regiment.—The Earl of Cassillis is to be the lord steward of the kings household—lt is stated that Lord Fitzroy Somerset will succeed Sir Herbert Taylor as adjutant-general The Duchess of Northumberland is to be mistress of the robes to the new queen.—The Earl of Hopetown is to be chamberlain to the queen Sir Charles M orice Pole, Bart, G.C.8., is appointed naval aid-de-camp to the king. It is said that, should the Duke of Cumberland make his election for the viceroyship of Hanover, the Duke of Cambridge, on his recall, goes to the horse guards. But it is conjectured that the Duke of Cumberland will remain in England, to watch over the interests of his son, as the Prince Leopold was recommended to do for the purpose of protecting those of his niece. Prince Leopold is to be created Duke of Kendal with a seat in the cabinet; and his majesty, thus surrounded by tne whole of his own family, may defy all the machinations of the disaffected. he following is the list of appointments in the queens household, which have been just made: Ladies of the Bedchamber—Marchioness of Wellesley, Marchioness of Mayo, Countess of Brownlow, Countess of Cawdor, Countess of Westmeath, Lady Clinton. Maids of Honour Miss Olivia de Roos, Miss Eden, Miss Courtenay Boyle, Miss Hope Johnstone, Miss Mitchell, Miss Sneyd. Bedchamber Women Lady William Russell, Lady Isabella Wemyss, Lady Caroline Wood, Dowager Lady Bedingfield, Mrs. Berkeley Paget, Mrs. Hope. he Dowager Countess of Ilchester has been appointed one of the ladies of the bedchamber to her majesty. Colonel Macdonald, of the Coldstream regiment of foot guards, and Captain Askew, have been appointed equerries to the queen.