PUBLIC NOTICE  hat he will commence next week to Lecture in the country.  All his books and publications may be had after each  DR. AIREY may be CONSULTED as usual on all diseases from nine p.m. till fo»r p.m., and his assistant from four p.m. till nine p.m. Advice Free.  Dr. airey’s Hand-book to the botanic practice. Price One Shilling. 50,000 copies of this excellent book have been sold in England alone in the course of  a few years.  Dr. Airet’s Woman’s Friend ; or, Man-Midwifery Exposed, and the Diseases of Children. Price Sixpence. his is a good book for mothers and heads of families. Should be in every working man’s house.  Dr. Airey’s Young Man’s Friend. Price Sixpence. his is a book for young men only, and should be read by every young man.  Dr. Airey has published his celebrated course of Six Lectures. hey will be sold at one penny each, to defray the cost of printing. hey may be had at the Lecture Hall, or after each lecture.  A Lecture on Medical Reform, price Id. A Lecture on Consumption, price Id. A Lecture on Fever, its Cause and Cure, price Id. A Lecture on Inflammations, price Id. A Lecture on Indigestion, price Id. A Lecture on Rheumatism, price Id.  he above may he had by post for one stamp extra.  Dr. Airey is the only qualified gentleman practising in Ashton-under-Lyne from America, and his Diplomas may seen at his Lecture Hall.  HE most conspicuous feature of KIT.. LORN’S Clothing Establishment is the department for the supply of Clothing for the industrious classes. In this department is displayed an unrivalled stock of strong, cheap, and useful Clothing. Working men’s baits for Sunday and holiday wear, of line double-milled cloth, £2 10s. Specially adapted for the use of working men’s clothing are Killorn & Co.’s goods, consisting of strong Reaver and Pilot Cloths, Tweeds, Woollen and Bedford Cords, Beaverteens, Plushes, and Cotton Cords. AND CO.’S  FOR WORKMEN,   AS HT6N-UND E it - L Y N E LOAN SOCIETY, held at Mr. Joseph Hothwell’s, Market House Inn, Warrington-street. Loans from £1 to £l5 granted on personal security. Forms granted every Monday night, from half-past seven to nine o’clock p.m. Five per cent, per annum given on all deposits from £1 and upwards.