GORTON.  A Chicken with Four Legs.—Amongst the many freaks of nature is a fowl with four legs, in the possession of Mr. Mark Hadfield, of the Sportman’s Inn, Hall-street, Hyde-road, where it can be seen at any time of the day running about with others of the same brood. he eggs from which these chickens were hatched came from Mr. D. Ashbrook’s farm, Reddish. It is of a black colour, has a double comb, and is enjoying good health.  Gorton Local Board Meeting.—On Thursday, the monthly meeting was held in the Local Board Offices, Hyde-road. here were present Messrs. Jennison, Henshall, Fiattely, Taylor, Walker (clerk), and Mayor (surveyor). In the absence of Mr. Stopford, Mr. Jennison was voted to the chair for the evening.—Mr. Fiattely moved that the notice of motion which he made at the last meeting, referrirg to voting by ballot at the next election, be referred to a full meeting of the board ; also, that the ashpit question be put off till more members were present.—Mr. Henshall did not like the idea of postponing business. here had been a month’s notice given, and he thought it was sufficient, for he might possibly be unable to attend the next meeting through unaioidable circumstances.—lt was ultimately agreed that both motions should stand over till next meeting.—A letter was read from Mr.Toyne, in which he spoke very strongly agasnst the account which appeared in the Reporter about the last board meeting. He also protested against Mr. Kelly’s statement, in language of a libelous character. Amongst other expressions he used was a “ base liar.”—The other business was of a formal character.  MOTTRAM. Manchester Royal School of Medicine.—An account has just been published of the results of the public examinations that have taken place in connection with the above institution, from November, 1868, to July, 1869. In the list of young gentlemen who are passing on step by step through the various degrees in the study of the medical science, we notice the name of Mr. William Ashton Patchett, of Mottram, be being the only student named as having passed the examination at the Apothecaries’ Hall; also that he has gained the third year’s scholarship, value £2O. Mr. Patchett has been successful in passing every examination during the three years he has been studying at the Manchester schooh