EAST INDIES.  Saturday a considerable number of letters, brought from India were delivered from the Host Office. he Uerar Rajah, it appears, has been reconciled to Holkar, and was expected to declare in his favour on the maturation of their comprehensive and cautions plan ot operations, livery part of India now swarms with emissaries from tile insurgent Chiefs, who travel under religious hahits, and the pretence of pilgrimages. Sevreal of these agents have been arrested in the Bundecund and Coimbatoor country, and their dispatches found concealed in their turbans, &c. Others appear to have been intrusted with verbal messages, but threats and promises have been equally ineffectual to induce a disclosure ol them. On the southern frontier of Coimbatoor several partiiansof the late Pyche Rajah, in correspondence ■with and assisted by Holkar, succeeded in creating some disturbances; but the prompt exertions of the military of thedistrict speedily restored tranquility. A detachment from Lord I.ake’s army in the l itter end of July, fell in with a corps of predatory c-valiy, who had plundeied and destroyed several  villages on the banks of the Chammil river and after a feeble resistance put the on the rout. he enemy left behind all their booty, which, when properly identified, will be restored to the unfortunate owners. Meer Khan, the active enterprising partizan of Holkar, is not dead, as was reported; he was severely wounded, but was carried off by his soldiers, and, according to the last accounts, was at Lahore, with a view, as was supposed, of entering the service of the Seilks, or of exciting them to hostility against the British. he Marquis Cornwallis has made numerous reforms in the Administration of India, and considerable retrenchments in its disbursements, substituting a system ol simple and unostentatious economy, for the parade and splendour which has hitherto been considered essential to the state and condition of the Chief Governor. hose who know the character of the natives, and the influence which appearances have on their mind, question he policy of the alteration. l ord Cornwallis, a lew weeks after his arrival, proceeded up the river, on some object ot business, w hen his whole retinue was comprised in six boats.— Jxml Wellesley, a year since, made the like excursion, under similar motives, and there were nearly six hundred boats in hi, suite. We hear too, that Lord Cornwallis has converted the magnificent Government house, lately built for the residence of tha Governor General, into public offices. he Earl Howe, Windham, and Gardner Indiamcn, have been ordered to proceed to Madras to China, instead of loading at. the former place, as had been intended, and sailed under convoy ol tbe Lancaster, of «,4 guns.