LONDON, January 16.  Count Stahremrv ig, the Austrian Ambassador received hi- passports, we believe, yesterday; but he , is not expected to take his departure lor two or three weeks. Accounts have been received of a violent Insur- | rection having bioken out at Li-bori against the j French and Spaniards. he accounts were brought j both to Dublin and Cork—they are as follow : j * Dublin, Jan. 1 L.  " The fallowing highly interesting intelligence has been just communicated at our office, by trie Captain oi an American vessel, which arrived in our harbour this day from Cadiz, which place he lelt on the 31st ulf. I " It appears, that previous to his sailing, letters from Lisbon, dated on the 12th and 17th of December, had been received, which stated that on the 12th, at night (the French having previously taktn j possession of all the forts and the remaining ships . of war, on which they hoisted French colours), the j populace, in immense numbers, commenced an at- j tack upon the French and Spanish troops; that a general engagement took place in the streets, and that great nun.beis were killed on both sides before the populace were reduced to submission. he following morning General Junot issued a menacing proclamation, threatening the ringleaders, which he said were well known, with the most dreadful  punishment. he immediate execution of the prisoners taken by the French followed this proclamation ; some were shot, and many were hanged. " These dreadful examples, however, were not of sufficient lorce to prevent a second insurrection, which took place three days after, on the 15th, more dreadful and sanguinary in its efTects than the former, ih which, our reports state, "between fi"e and Mx thousand French and Spaniards were killed." and that the most dreadful disorder prevailed in the Capital when the la»t accounts were sent off. he greater part of the tri-ops stationed there are Spanish. o the horrors of insurrection are added the miseries of want; as a scarcity of the most dreadful and affecting kind ptcvailed generally in and about Lisbon." Another letter from Dublin, of the same date, mentions the arrival of the ship Isabella, Captain Higgn*, from Cadii, bringing accounts similar to the above  PEDESTRIAN FEAT. Exeter, Jan. 13—Lieutenant H. of the Royal Lancashire Regiment, continues his daily labour with unabated ardour. his day makes the 13th, dn ing each of which he has walked regularly thirty miles, making an aggregate of 390 miles. He has seven days to walk two hundred and ten miles more, to complete his engagement; and, unless some accident should occur, theie is scarcely a doubt but he wi!l win. he odds, which were on the second and third days, five to two, and even (our to one against him. are now equally as much in his favour. His health and spirits continue unabated He has now acquired a firmer step than at first, and he feels confident of success In his walk he is accompanied by a couple of fifers, who are relieved at intervals, playing a quick march, which keeps Up his attention, and assists him m a regular pace.