CARPETING.  ORDERS will be taken in by the Manufacturer, on Very low Terms, for Ready. Money only, at the Lower-Swan, Market-flreet-lane, Manchester, on Tuefday, Wednesday, Thurfday, and Friday, the l6th, 17th, 18th, and 19th o December, 1783 ; where, for the Inspection of Ladies and Gentlemen, are a great Variety of Patterns of that moft excellent and much-approved new Fafhion, called the Qui: en s Carpeting, which for fine Shade, Beauty of Patterns, Colours and Quality, very much excel all Sort* ot Carpeting made in the Kingdom. Likewife, a great Vanety of the belt "Wilton and Scotch Carpet Patterns 5 Bed-Side and Stair-cafe Carpeting, of the bell Qualities and moft elegant Colours. It is very certain that a Carpet Mmufaaurcr, who takes the Plan of the Room himfelf, can make a Carpet at leall so per Cent, better than if made by others, as he can have every Breadth wove in the Loom to the exaft Length, which faves many difagreeable Seams and Remnants which are charged to the Purchaler. Ladies and Gentlemen who are incHned to infpect thefe Patterns, may have an Opportunity to make their Choice out of the moft elegant Collection ever offered to the Public, as they are all taken from entire flew Defigns, from the heft Mailers in that Art. Ladies and Gentlemen who are inclined to give Orders, will be waited upon, if delired, with the Patterns at their own Houfcs, in Town or Country. „ To accommodate the Ladies and Gentlemen of this 1 own, and its Environs, whole Carpets have the Misfortune of Spots ofGreafe, Ink, or any other difagreeable Stains on them, the fame will be amazingiy revived on reafonable Terms. o be Sold very cheap, for Ready Money, a Quantity of Wilton and Scotch Bcd-iidc Carpets ; alfo 14 Yards of half Yard wide Scotch Carpetidg, for Stairs, and a Quantity ot Scotch Carpeting in Remnants ; likewife a Quantity of Bath Rubbers (being a new Invention of the French, Spamfh, dec. Prifoners, at Stapleton, near Briflol,) which for dulling and cleaning Mahogany, Glafs, and other Furniture, are allowed by the molt capital Glafs and Cabinet Manufacturers in the Kingdom, to much excel any Thing for that Purpofe ever offered for Sale, at Bd. 9d. and iad. each. N. B. hey are exceedingly handy to duft or rub down Delks, Tables, Counters, Glals, &c. &c. &c.