MANCHESTER, January 21.  On Monday was married at Preflbuiy, in Chtfhire Fiancis Parry Price, Ot Bryn-y-pys, in tie County t.t Mint F«J» to Mifs Wright, Daughter of the Rev. Mr. \\\\ right. 01 Mbl» tram St. Andrew, in the County of Chefier. On Wednefday was mariied at the Collegiate Church, Mt> Payant, teacher of the French Language, &c. to Mifs ( ia:e» Daughter of Mr. Peter Clare", ot this Town. Yclterday was married at the Collegiatt Church. Dun. iiW Halffead Poole, Efqj of Lymm, in Chrfhire, to Mils - f Mafley, Daughter of James Maffey, Elq, of Salic-io On Saturday fennight, died in an advanced Age, n regretted, the Rev. James Scott, of Heckmuidwi< 1, in York (hire, where he was many Yeai s Pador of a dificntinf Congregation, and Tutor of an Academy for bring ng »;p Youth for the work of the Minidry. By which Means * great Number of Congregations in divers Parts ot England have c njoyed, and are now blelTed with the Labours ot laithlul, pious Miniflei s. Lad Week, Mr. homas Baron, of Walfiiaw, diflihuted ten fat Sheep, and five Loads of. Rotators to the Poor of 1 ottington. It is hoped that thofe who have it in their Power, will not hefitate to follow an Example fo worthy of Imitation. On Saturday fcnnigl.t between fir and fevm oclock, a young Man coming en the Road from Warrington to this Town, was met near Marfcroft Green, by two Highwayn tn genteelly dreflid and well mounted on bay Geldings, who hiked him the Time of the Morning, how far to Waniugton, and what he had got in his Handkerchief, (which contained two new Shirts, a new Silk Handkerchief, and three Pair of Stockings) the young Man not willing to fatisfy them, one prefented a Piflol and lwore he would fhoot him if he did not deliver it to him, which he did, and they rode clear off. he yeaily Bill of Mortality for Liverpool, tor lad Year, is as follows : Chridening 1332—Burials 1281—Marriages 52c. Saturday Morning, a dreadlul Fire broke out in the Workfhop of Mr. Benjamin Uallfworth, Velvet-drefler, which in a fhort Time did very couliderable Damage.