SPANISH CAPTURES and then SHIP NEWS  he Spanish ship St. Andero, with 100,(XXI dollars, sugar, indigo, and cochineal, was tak.t n on the 01 t ult. by the Tucy armed logger, and is arrived at Plymouth. he Spanish ship Sr. Anna Conformida, from Oroonok >, I.,mm! o Baieelotia, laden with hides, c <cea, indigo, and cotton, is taken by the I.ndymion of I ! gnnand brought into I’ly month. ice op.mish ship Santa Thomas, from the river I.a Plata, i oun.i to Cadiz, laden with hides and tallow, has been taken by the Aia\\ of M guns, in sight et the lei .ed SepuJron, aiiel is sale arrived at Plymouth. Advices from Cadiz, dated Dec. 11, state, that the Amphitritu Spanish frigate, trom Cadiz to Vera C’reiz, whs detain d by the Donnegal man of war, and ent inte> Gibraltar on the "tit of that month. I he following Spanish vessels are detained by his Majesty’s slop Polyphemus. On the ‘JSth November the ship Santo Christo, from Monteveido to Cadiz, with hides and copper. On the 4th December the snow St. Josef, from l.a Guayra to Cadiz, with cocoa, indigo, cochineal, and cotton. On the .-til the Edward, (iron Vera Cruz to Cadiz, w.th cocoa, indigo, cochineal, ami fh-.odp dollars; and the ship Bon Air, hum Vera Cruz to Cadiz, with cocoa, indigo, cochineal, and "JO.tXXJ dollars. he Spanish -hip Pura Conception, from the Havannah; the Mercury, , from Buenos Ayres; and St. Pedro, trom MontevciJo, are captured and i sent into Plymouth. Sir John Orde has made some valuable Spanish . captures. he crews of three of the captured ships have horn sent to Lisbon, the ships to Gibraltar.— The Camilla, of Co guns, h.i» taken a valuable Spa| nish slnp, and sent her into Gibraltar. he Laurel, late Phillips, and Crania, Melling, i of Liverpool, are arrived at Demerara, after having had a severe engagement oft Surinam, in which Captain Phillips and the Chief Mate of the Urania 1 were killed.— ihe Urania is so much shattered, it is , supposed -he will be condemned. he I arl of Liverpool, Mullion, from Liverpool | for Africa, was taken the Sd Nov. by a French I frigate of d(i guns, and afterwards lost going into Spain. On Saturday se’nnight arrived in Grimsby Roads, j two Berwick smacks bound for London. On the JOlh inst. they fell in with La Vengeur brig privateer, on FlambnC Head; an engagement immediately commenced, which lastud a considerable time ; the enemy received ;o much injury, that he with difficulty escaped. Wt understand that the smacks received no material damage.