ANTIQUARIAN RESEARCHES.  Esnr Ln, in his History of Liverpool, speaking of the siege of Liverpool, mention*, *• that the Parliament had a strong garrison in Liverpool under CoL More, and that upon the Ca*tle many cannon were planted, at well to annoy the besieger* at a distance, as to cover the ships in the harbour. Irince Rupert, after taking Bolton by storm,assisted by the Earl of Derby, a Jvanced towards Liverpool, and about the _d of dune, lb t), U-gan the siege, fixing hi* mam camp round the beacon; * he opened trenches, and erected batteries chiefly on a ridge of ground which run* from Ihe top of a street now called Shaw* Brow, to the present copperas works and mills. renches were made in the same grounds under them, and batteries were constricted, which were re* liered every twelve hours. Ihe Prince frequently it* tacked the besieged in the way of storm, but was alwaya repulsed for nearly the space of a month ; when, fiom some cause not sufficiently known, the Prince entered on the north side and put all to the sword until they came to the High Cross, the place where the old Change stood t this was on the 116 th of June, about three o’clock in the morning.” he inquisitive antiquarian may now sat-sfy himself with traces of an intrenchment, quite visible, about ‘J>l yards from the present London road, and opposite the end of St. Ann’s street, on the east side isfa road recently cut, leading to Rodney-strect. Here the rock lia* been evidently excavated and again filled up with loose earth. Other tiaces are distinguishable ia the field above, as well as on the other side of a Jare nearer the lov,n it the top of a new street, now planned, to be C-IK4 Chunter Street, and at the coiner of another small street, called Pennington-street, all ju.t below she copperas works and site of the old mill which formerly stood thereon, and which was blown down about IT*!. 1 here has been traced, and may now be seen as the workmen arc removing the earth, the situation ofm fort or battery, so accurately pointed out in the pr.vs ding extract from Enfield; and in the trench base hero found many hones, broken gla**, old bricks, remnant* of a wall, and louden halls, 6tc, &c. he situation if such a* was best adapted to Command both the town and the castle, winch was then situated where bt. Georges church and the market row st-nd. he Prince’s head-quart.Ts were at the While Cottage exactly opposite the Coffee-house at f verton, and the main camp round about the beacon, near to where our illustrious Prince William of Gloucester now hold* Ins head-quarters. Some other traces were discovered when the Infirmary foundation was digged about 60 years ago, when the lower trenches, already mentioned, were di*c»*vcrtd, and in them were found gardevin bottles, cartouches, drc. which the besieger* had left behind. N. B. An account of the siege of Liverpool mty also be found in Scacomb’j ELiloty of the Mo«< of bUnler, ,