POOLE TOWN COUNCIL.  A quarterly meeting of the corporation of this borough was held at the Guildhall, on Monday, the Mayor presiding. here were also present—Aldermen T. Wanhill, J. Goose, and J. Adey, Councillors H. Harris,U. Frampton, C. J. Stone, W. L. C. Adey, G. Belren, E. Mullett, F. Styling, J. Wood, K. Ledgard, W. Pearce, G. A. Adams, E. Lacy, G. H. Gutch, and W. Rickman.  rtNANCII.  he TOWN Cciax read the report of the finance committee, which stated that the expenditure for the past quarter had been /122 I Is.; the estimated expenditure for the ensuing quarter being £303 155.; to meet this £124 9s. would ac rue from various sources, leaving a deficiency of £379 6s. Id. to be provided by • borough rate to be levied in the following proportions : St. James, £220 17e. 6d.; Longtieet, A 75 ls. 64.; Parkstoue, £3i) 11s.; Hatnworthy, £29 161. Id. WINDING THE CHURCH CLOCK AND RINGING THE BELLS.  he MAYOR said he bad received the following communication from the pariah authorities :—At • vestry meeting held on Monday, the 00th of January. it was resolved that The church clock and bells of St. James being for the accommodation and convenience of the town and borough generally, this vestry is of opinion that the annual expenses connected with the winding of the clock and ringing the bells should be borne by the borough at large. Resolved that application be made to the town council to giant the annual sum of £l4 10s. towards defraying the above expenses, there being now no church rate or fund from which the churchwardens can obtain the same, and that a copy of the resolution be sent to the mayor for the consideration of the council." He (the mayor) should be happy to bear any rematks which might be made. Alderman ADLY said he should move that a slim be allowed for ringing the bells on loyal days, such as the birthdays of the Queen, the Prince Consort, the Prince of Wales, and other members of the royal family. As there ass no fund from which to pay those charges he though it only right that the council should provide the sum, to preserve the town from the appearance of disloyalty. Alderman WANIIILL thought some limit should be prescribed in ringing on these occasions. Mr. Lannsati —ls it legal for 111 to pay it ? Mr. 1111.3.trrx.—I wins about to ask the same gutsion. he Town CLERK real the ninety-second section of the Municipal Corporation Act which referred to disposition of corporate foods. It souoteristed