Iraq Tourism

In Iraq the places to visit are Baghdad (capital city), Mosul, Agargoaf, Assur, Babylon, Basra, Borsuppa, Ctesiphon, Eridu, Hatra, Kerbala, Khorsabad,Kish, Najaf, Nimrud, Nineveh,Qurna, Samarra, Ur, Uruk, The Marshes, Ukhaidhir. 

Baghdad is the capital city of Iraq. It is said that every road in Iraq leads to Baghdad. It is the City of the Caliphs. It is also the place wherethe legendary character Sindbad was born. Baghdad is located on the river Tigris. The river separates Baghdad into two parts namely Rusafa and Karkh. However, they are well-connected by bridges. In Rusafa one can find the Al-Rashid Street which is the commercial hub of the city.Caliph Street, which lies parallel to this street, is lined with ancient mosques and churches. Cinema halls, travel agencies, premium hotels and airline offices will be found on the Sadoun Street. One can take a lovely soothing drive by the Tigris along the road (lying parallel to Sadoun Street) that stretches from Jumhouriya Bridge to The 14th July Suspended Bridge. 

The places to see in Baghdad are old churches and monasteries -Kadhimain Shrine, Church of Meskenta, The Latin Church,Syrian Catholic Church, Latin Church;Walls and Gates-Mu'adham (North) Gate, Dhafariya (Wastani) Gate, Halaba (Talisman) Gate, and Basaliya Gate;The Abbasid Palace. 

In Mosul, the second largest city in Iraq,is full of tourist sites like The Umayyad Mosque,The Mujahidi Mosque,The Great ( Nuriddin Mosque), Qara Serai( Black Palace). 

Basra is the third greatest city of Iraq. It is called the Venice of the East .Numerous canals running through the city creates an enchanting beauty worth seeing. 

Kadhimain Shrine

Al-Kadhimeyya is one of the oldest towns in Iraq. Before the construction of Baghdad, Al-Kadhimeyya was known as Shoneezi, an Arab name meaning the Black Grain. When the Abbasid Caliph Abu Ja'far Al-Mansour started the construction of the Round City of Baghdad in 762 AD (145 AH), he made that area a cemetery named the Qureish cemeteries; containing the bodies of his family. 

What to see in Baghdad? 

One of the oldest churches in Baghdad, known as Church of Meskenta and as the Church of the Virgin Mary, located in Midan Square off Al-Rashid Street. 

It was first built in 1640 AD by the Armenians on a piece of land granted to them by the Ottoman Sultan Murad IV. Then it changed hands to the Nestorian Christians before it eventually went back to the Orthodox Armenians possession. 
