Georgia’s Prime Minister meets with Azeri President
Georgian Prime Minister Bidzina Ivanishvili arrived in Azerbaijan. Vice-Prime Minister of the Republic of Azerbaijan Iagub Eiubov hosted Ivanishvili at Baku airport.

Ivanishvili met with Azeri President Ilham Alyev at the Zagulba Palace. The sides discussed future cooperation perspectives and export of energy resources. Within the framework of one-day visit, Ivanishvili will meet with his counterpart Artur Rasizade.

According to Ivanishvili, a 7-member delegation will arrive in Baku from Georgia. The delegation will include Foreign Minister Maia Panjikidze, Energy Minister Kakha Kaladze, Economy Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili and Minister for Diaspora Issues Kote Surguladze.

One of the topics of the meetings will be gas tariff. The Georgian delegation will return to Georgia on 27 December.

Issues of delimitation and demarcation of Georgian-Azerbaijani border will be discussed during the meeting with the Azerbaijani president in Baku.

The statement came from Prime Minister of Georgia Bidzina Ivanishvili speaking at a news conference in Tbilisi, Georgia Online reports.

"These are also the issues of the monastery complex of David Gareji, Red Bridge and others and we are interested in the resolution of these issues", he said.

The premier noted that Georgia and Azerbaijan have wonderful relations. Therefore, there will be no problems in solving the issue. "All issues will be settled in a traditionally friendly atmosphere", he said.

Azerbaijani experts consider that Georgia's Prime Minister will have to answer many awkward questions in Baku, "vesti.az" informs.

Azerbaijani political scientist Rovshan Ibragimov told Vesti.az that Georgia and Azerbaijan have strategic relations and no matter what government comes in power, it will not cut off the branch it is sitting on.

The political scientist is convinced that Baku-Tbilisi-Karsi railway project will not be endangered. "It will be introductory meeting and the issues regarding the cooperation between the countries will be discussed", Ibragimov said.

Expert of political research centre of Baku "Atlas" Alkhan Shakhinoghlu considers that it's hard to understand Ivanishvili. "He sometimes says that he can't see any benefit in the Baku-Tbilisui-karsi railway project and sometimes he said he is thankful to Azerbaijan. By the contradictory statements, Bidzina Ivanishvili will damage Georgia's Image".

The goals of the Prime Minister are to be liked by Russia and to see as much profit as possible as a businessman.
"By becoming closer to Russia Ivanishvili forgets that the Kremlin doesn't intend to let go of Abkhazia and so called South Ossetia", the expert said.

Another political scientist Ilgar Velizade considers that Bidzina Ivanishvili will not speak about Baku-Tbilisi-Karsi. He thinks negotiations with Ivanishvili will be more difficult for Baku than it was with the previous government.

"Baku has a strong position and resources of influence. It is not only natural gas and its price, but investment in Georgian economics. Tension in relations will not benefit any country, though Tbilisi may lose more. I think the new government perceives this well, otherwise this visit would not have taken place", Velizade said.

Azer Rashidoghulu considers it's doubtful that Russia will say no to Abkhazia and so called South Ossetia.
"It will be hard for Ivanishvili to regulate relations with Russia. The Kremlin goal is clear - to turn Georgia into a vassal as it did in case of Armenia. The Georgian population will never agree to this", Rashidoghlu said, adding that it will be easier for Ivanishvili to cooperate with the West than Russia, adding that Ivanishvili is taking a dangerous path.

Political analyst Nijat Samedoghlu considers that Bidzina Ivanishvili's statement regarding Baku-Tbilisi-Karsi was caused by the confrontation between him and Mikheil Saakashvili.

"Of course, there are a lot of talks about the "Russian dictation," and at the same time on some of the economic expectations of the Prime Minister of Georgia from Azerbaijan. Perhaps Ivanishvili wants some subsidies, which Baku allocated for the railway construction", Samedoghlu said. He underscored Ivanishvili's grateful statement that Azerbaijan provides gas to Georgia in lower price.

MP of Aerbaijani MIli Mejlis Rasim Musabekov considers that Ivanishvili is a new face in politics, "who often makes rash statements", though then tries to soften them.

"The Government may change in Georgia, but the most important thing is strategic partnership. I think everything will be all right between Ivanishvili and Azerbaijan", the MP said.

He said the Prime Minister came in power with "popular promises "and now that it's time to keep them, he is in a difficult situation.

He should just be told, "Dear, Georgia gets Azerbaijani gas at very low rates in the region. Want to reduce tariffs for Georgians? Reduce taxes, excise duties. And the price of Azerbaijani gas to Georgia is low and it's impossible to have it lower. "I think that after talks with Ivanishvili in Baku, many issues will be resolved", Musabekov saied.
