Top Tourist Attraction Places in Saudi Arabia

1. Al Masjid al Nabawi

One of the most important symbols of the Islamic Religion of Saudi Arabia, Al-Masjid al-Nabawi located in Madina is considered to be the world's second holiest mosque. Al-Masjid al-Nabawi at Saudi Arabia in Asia was built by the Prophet himself, and raised up to its present stature, by later Islamic rulers.

2. Al-Ula

Al-Ula in Saudi Arabia is one of the most interesting Suadi Arabia Tourist Attractions. This is an ancient site that had once had been the hub of trade and commerce. The Al-Ula in Saudi Arabia is located somewhere between Al Madinah and Tabuk in the central region of Saudi Arabia.

3. Dumat al Jundal

A seat of the rich Culture of Saudi Arabia, this mysterious city is mentioned by the name "Adamatu" in the Assyrian records. The present name of the city means "Dumah of the Stone", after the name of Dumah, one of the twelve sons of Ishmael.

4. Jabal al-Lawz

Jabal al-Lawz features among the most popular Saudi Arabia Tourist Attractions and the region is famous for its unique flora and fauna. A bird watchers paradise and a botanists Eden, the Jabal al-Lawz in Saudi Arabia is a treat for all. Put on your trekking gear and roll up your sleeves as you prepare for the enchanting expedition of your life.

5. Jamarat Bridge

The Jamarat Bridge at Saudi Arabia is a must see place not only for the Muslims but also for those belonging to other religion as it holds a very significant place in among the places of tourist interest in Saudi Arabia. Your Saudi Arabia Travel Guide cannot do without the name of Jamarat Bridge.

6. Jannat al-Baqi

Jannat al-Baqi in Saudi Arabia is burial ground that is of great historical significance to the Muslims as it contains the remains of many relatives and friends of the prophet Mohammed including his mother wife and grandfather. Today the place has nearly seven thousand companions of Prophet Mohammed. The name of the graveyard means Tree Garden of Heaven and the place is truly considered to be sacred.

7. The Jawatha Mosque

The Jawatha Mosque is situated in the Al Khilabiyah and you have to travel approximately a distance of 12 kilometers North east of Hofuf before you actually reach this place. The Jawatha Mosque in Saudi Arabia was constructed in the 7th Century by a tribe known by the name of Bani Abdul Qais that inhabited the area in the early Islamic period.

8. Masjid al-Qiblatain

Masjid al-Qiblatain in Saudi Arabia usually features at the top of any Saudi Arabia Travel Guide. Located in the holy city of Madina, Masjid al-Qiblatain at Saudi Arabia in Asia is visited by devout followers of Islam from all parts of the world. An embodiment of the ancient Culture of Saudi Arabia, the mosque ranks among the most important Tourist Attractions of Saudi Arabia.

9. Medain Saleh

The exotic Medain Saleh in Saudi Arabia is located towards the South of Petra and is one of the most significant Saudi Arabia Tourist Attractions both in term of historical significance and beauty. This place had once served as a trade link between South Arabia and Petra and had once been the center of civilization. Medain Saleh in Saudi Arabia is an ancient city the place is dotted with the ruins of walls, towers and also houses.

10. MountUhud

Mount Uhud in Saudi Arabia is the site of the famous Battle of Uhud which was fought on 23 March, 625 CE. This exotic region forms an intrinsic part of the Saudi Arabia Travel Guide. Extending from East to west the mount has a slope towards the north and covers a total of seven kilometers in length and three kilometers in breath.

11. Quba Mosque

The holiest of holies among the mosques in Madina, The holiest of holies among the mosques in Madina, Quba Mosque in Saudi Arabia is the oldest mosque in the world. Visited by pilgrims world wide, the ancient mosque is one of the leading Tourist Attractions of Saudi Arabia and forms part of any Saudi Arabia Travel Guide. in Saudi Arabia is the oldest mosque in the world. Visited by pilgrims world wide, the ancient mosque is one of the leading Tourist Attractions of Saudi Arabia and forms part of any Saudi Arabia Travel Guide.

12. Rock Carving Site

Shuwaymus is yet another Rock Carving Site in Saudi Arabia that has been recently discovered. The rock arts at this place tell us a lot about the domestication of animals in the early times. This place had been home to the Neolithic people and this Saudi Arabia Rock Carving Site tells you that the country had not always been a desert and has undergone plenty of climatic alterations.

13. Tayma

Tayma is situated in the northeastern part of Saudi Arabia and historical records show that this place had been a prosperous Jewish settlement, comprised of magnificent buildings and plenty of wells and other sources of water. In the 7th century BC, Tayma in Saudi Arabia had been a very prominent place and we have its name mentioned in the Old Testament in the book of Jeremiah.
