Welcome to Magical Orlando, Florida!

Whether you are planning to take your vacation with your children, your spouse, your grandchildren, or your friends, your trip to Orlando, Florida could be your Best Holidays Ever! With its year-around perfect weather, and so many different things to do, it is no wonder Orlando, Florida is one of the world’s most visited vacation destinations. Spend your time visiting one of the many theme parks, playing golf, or just relaxing in the sun around the pool. No matter what you choose you are sure to have a great time.

Exciting Orlando Theme Parks

Come and explore all of the reasons Orlando is known as the theme park capital of the world:

Walt Disney World® Resort
Universal Orlando® Resort
Islands of Adventure
SeaWorld® Orlando
Wet N' Wild
Legoland® Florida
…just to name a few. From the classics such as Magic Kingdom and EPCOT at the Walt Disney World® Resort, to the famous Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Orlando® Resort, to the wonders of the ocean at SeaWorld® Orlando, or the family fun at LEGOLAND® Florida, there is a theme park nearby to make everyone’s vacation dreams come true.

Famous Orlando Attractions

Orlando also has much more to offer than just theme parks! Consider some of these very cool ideas: Airboat rides through the Central Florida, Get up-close and personal with the wildlife at Gatorland, catch an NBA basketball game with the Orlando Magic, or take in one of the amazing concerts or show in town. Trust us when we say…there are more things to do than you will ever have time for in one trip!

A Variety of Shopping Options

Whether you’re looking for a splurge or a deal, Orlando’s array of malls, outlets, boutiques and galleries are never much more than a 15-minute drive from wherever you are and are sure to please.

Family Dining

From the family-fun themed establishments to the celebrity chef-anchored, four- and five-diamond restaurants, Orlando galleries have something to fit everyone’s taste.

Championship Golfing

With more than 170 golf courses, over 20 golf academies and some of the world's most prestigious tournaments, Orlando is a true golfer's paradise. It is no wonder Orlando was voted the "North American Golf Destination of the Year" by the International Association of Golf Tour Operators in 2010. And with a multitude of stunning courses designed by the likes of Nicklaus, Dye, and Fazio, Orlando offers you amazing golfing experience found only here!
