Other Destinations to Visit from Your Mexican Vacation

Mexico is located on the southern tip of North America and has three international borders, one with the United States and two with the Central American nations of Belize and Guatemala. If travelers to Mexico wish to visit other nearby destinations, the obvious choices would be the bordering nations. However, there are many other great travel destinations that owe a good portion of their tourism dollars to their proximity to Mexico.

Belize

Mexico borders the Central American country of Belize to the southeast, along the course of the Hondo River. The border stretches 132 miles, between Mexican states of Quintana Roo and Campeche on the Yucatan Peninsula, and Belize. As a travel destination, Belize is known as a place that is famous for its tropical climate and natural beauty. This country sports the world’s only jaguar preserve as well as a home for other cats including ocelots and pumas, also known as a cougar or mountain lion. Ancient Maya aborigines worshiped jaguars and today the creatures are still both revered and feared. Though it has not yet reached the popularity of the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico or Costa Rica, Belize has been gaining more and more attention from travelers due to its adventures, Mayan ruins and vibrant culture. From Mexico, there are bus services available from Chetumal to Belmopan, Belize

Guatemala

To the southeast, Mexico shares a border with Guatemala running along the Mexican states of Quintana Roo, Campeche, Tabasco and Chiapas and the Guatemalan departments of El Peten, El Quiche, Huehuetenango and San Marcos. The Guatemala-Mexico Border is 542 miles and, in some areas, is defined by the Usumacinta, Salinas and Suchiate Rivers. Travelers wishing to visit Guatemala from Mexico can go by boat on the river Rio San Pedro to Naranja; this route is not used by many travelers and so it has a touch of excitement which certainly adds to the allure for the more adventurous. Guatemala was once the site of the impressive ancient Mayan civilization and is still extremely proud of its Maya heritage. In particular, El Petén’s remote archaeological sites should not be missed.

Panama Canal

The Panama Canal tourism industry owes much of its prosperity to cruise ships taking passengers to or from ports in Mexico, but tourists who stop and take some time to visit this culturally rich country will not be disappointed. History buffs will love visiting The Museum of the Panama Canal and learning about how and why the canal was created. Travelers should also visit the historic Casco Antiguo (Colonial City), home to some of the best restaurants in Panama City, where they can mingle among street vendors, hear music and be immersed in Panamanian culture.

Vinales, Cuba

The Vinales valley in Cuba is an incomparable landscape where traditional methods of agriculture have survived for several centuries with hardly any modernization. Due to the beauty of its nature, Vinales is considered one of Cuba’s beautiful places and has also been named a UNESCO World Heritage Site as a cultural location. Travelers can reach this fascinating destination in approximately two hours by plane from Mexico.

While travelers can certainly have an amazing vacation by visiting the many diverse cities and sights in Mexico alone, they can only enhance their travel experience by expanding it to include other fascinating destinations nearby.
