American Spring Break in Niagara Falls

Category: Clifton Hill Niagara Falls,Niagara Falls,Niagara Falls Canada,skywheel niagara falls,Spring Break Niagara Falls,what to do in niagara falls – Tags: Clifton Hill Attractions, clifton hill niagara falls, niagara falls, Niagara Falls Entertainment, niagara falls hotels, Niagara Falls SkyWheel – clynn – 1:09 pm

Finally! Spring is just about here and Easter is around the corner…two very popular times to visit Niagara Falls.  American Spring Break is just a few days away, and students and families alike will be flocking to Niagara Falls to take advantage of its many attractions and landmarks.
Besides the Niagara Falls itself, the centerpiece of excitement lies on Clifton Hill.  Just adjacent to the Falls, it’s impossible not to be funneled into this lit-up, dazzling street. Children will be drawn towards its varying attractions and adults will be mesmerized by the giant Niagara Skywheel that overlooks the city and primarily, offers the most spectacular view of the LANDMARK.

The Niagara Skywheel carries you 175 feet in the sky in a 6-8 person gondola for a visual feast of the surrounding area. Some of the most beautiful pictures have been taken in this inexpensive attraction that everyone benefits from. The scenery and landmarks nail the perfect photo and children will love being on such a massive ferris wheel.

Boston Pizza Clifton Hill offers a great choice for family fun and features a wide array of Midway games, the Strike bowling centre and signature dishes like the massive selection of pizza from Vegetarian right to the popular “Meateor”–which is exactly what you think–heavy on the meat! Parents can also check the score of their favourite sports teams on one of the high-definition televisions, while children are entertained by all the interactive games and amusements.  One of the best features about Clifton Hill is that you won’t have to walk far to participate in any activities…the Great Canadian Midway, for example, is just on the lower level of Boston Pizza! Featuring over 300 games, its entertainment complex is the prime location to find the best in interactive games, the XD Theater Motion Simulator and the spooky Ghost Blasters Dark Ride, all family favourites!

The choices in Niagara Falls are endless, but if saving money is your goal, check out the exclusive offers on the CliftonHill.com website. For example, when you purchase the Clifton Hill Fun Pass online, you will get a bonus admission to the Niagara Skywheel! Two trips can allow two different views when you go during the day and in the evening. I would highly recommend going this route, as you really do get a 50% savings.

For those spending a night or two, be sure to check out the Comfort Inn Clifton Hill hotel and their great specials, like the Family Fun Package. You can even build your own “a la carte” package on the CliftonHill.com website to suit your needs, and the needs of your family.With all the pressures of work, extra-curricular activities and homework, it’s important to maintain a sense of togetherness with the ones that you love and bring the family closer together with a Niagara Falls adventure and create memories that will last a lifetime!

Christine
