Tourism Australia has another world record in its sights

Sydney photographers, bloggers, instagrammers and tweeters are being invited to Bondi this Saturday (23 March 2013) to join Colby Brown, one of America’s most influential photography bloggers attempt to set a new world record for the largest ever ‘photo-walk’.

The Bronte to Bondi Photo Walk is supported by Google, Samsung and Destination NSW and is part of a new Tourism Australia program, targeting digital influencers and opinion leaders, inviting them to share their images and experiences of Australia with their extensive social media followings.

Colby is a professional photographer based in Denver, Colorado and has 2.3 million followers on Google+.

“Australia has such a vibrant and active photography community that is known around the world. I instantly knew that I wanted to do a photo walk in Sydney because it is such a beautiful location and offers a fantastic opportunity to bring that thriving community together to celebrate and showcase much of what the city has to offer the world,” Colby Brown said.

Tourism Australia Managing Director Andrew McEvoy said that the combination of Colby’s photographic talent and huge following of fans provided a powerful platform to showcase some of Australia’s very best tourism experiences.

CONTINUES BELOW

“With more than four million fans, we already have the biggest destination Facebook fan page in the world, and apparently we only need about 300 people to join Colby on this Bronte-Bondi Photo Walk to make it a new world record for Australia,” Mr McEvoy said.

As well as the photo walk, Colby Brown will be also taking part in Google+ ‘Hangouts’ during his Australian trip, which also take in the natural landscapes and scenery of South Australia, Tasmanian, Victoria and Western Australia.

A number of leading Australian digital influencers are supporting the world record bid, including South Sydney photographer Michael Sutton, who will accompany Colby and share his own photos taken during the walk with his 52,000 Google+ followers.

The world record for a photo-walk is currently held by another prominent US photography blogger, Trey Ratcliff. It took place in Melbourne in January and was attended by 289 people.

The Bronte to Bondi Photo Walk takes place on Saturday 23 March: starting at Bronte Beach at 3pm and finishing on the North Bondi grassy knoll around sunset.

Participants taking the best photograph can win up to $8,000 worth of prizes, including cameras and photography equipment as well as Bridgeclimb vouchers.

Colby and Michael will both be posting real-time updates of the photo-walk on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Google+. The hashtags for the photo-walk are #Bondi2013 and #SeeAustralia
