Experts Expect Ukrainian Automotive Industry's Competitive Growth On Imposition Of Special Duties On Importation Of Passenger Cars (14:14, Friday, March 22, 2013

Experts expect competitive growth of the Ukrainian automotive industry on the imposition of special duties on importation of passenger cars, they said on March 21 at a roundtable discussion, entitled "Is Ukraine capable of producing competitive cars?" in Ukrainian News Agency's press center.

Oleksii Andreichenko, a senior analyst for machine-building at the private equity firm ART Capital, says the Ukrainian car industry potentially has good prospects, including those of raising foreign investments.

"The motorization index in Ukraine is one hundred and fifty automobiles per thousand people. Compare: over two hundred in Russia, three hundred and thirty in Bulgaria, four hundred and thirty-two in Poland. Even corrected to dependence of automobilisation on GDP this index in Ukraine must make about two hundred and ten. Potential investors take this into consideration," the expert underlined.

Andreichenko notes, at the moment the Ukrainian car industry needs protection and support of the state for a certain period, but if enterprises' owners will use the opportunity of the grace period correctly, then the domestic motor industry will be able to restore its competitive advantage.

Yevhen Oleinikov, director of the Economic Development and Trade Ministry's department for strategic planning of economic development, pointed to importance of the automotive industry for the Ukrainian economy, and also stressed that the measures of public backing to the car industry were actively applied by the governments of the world's most developed economies.

"In a similar situation for the U.S. government this was even not a question, if to back the motor industry. When the crisis came in 2008-2009, they simply ewer taking taxpayers' money and pumped the auto industry enterprises. Yes, on one hand Ukraine is presently making products of low competitive ability. On the other hand, this is over thirty thousand jobs and potential opportunity to create jobs in other sectors of economy," the official stressed.

He remarks, for the State it is important to keep the taxpayer base, to which the sector enterprises are part.

Oleinikov underlines, this measure is temporary, for three years, and calls carmakers to use this term to the utmost for elevating their competitiveness.

As Ukrainian News earlier reported, the interagency committee on international trade (MKMT) as of April 13 imposes special duties on the importation of passenger cars with engine capacity between 1,000 and 2,200 cubic centimeters, at the rate of 6.46-12.95% of their cost.
