Taking in the secret shores of Miami

SUNNY ISLES, Fla. — Here stand the world’s strangest beach bums: a tribe of robed nomads who led their camels way off course. Then again, who wouldn’t flee desert dunes for an oceanfront oasis, complete with camel-shaped pool?

The Sahara motel-condo’s charmingly tacky 60-year-old tableau clashes with the ivory towers of Sunny Isles Beach, a 2.26-mile barrier island just north of Miami. Proving that a quiet haven can thrive amid South Florida chaos, it lures repeat vacationers — and incognito celebrities — with picture-perfect beaches, hidden tropical coves, artsy parks, legal skinny-dipping and a fanciful back story.

In the 1940s, “Sunny Isles, the Venice of America” attracted tycoons, followed by stars from Frank Sinatra to the Beatles.

But the town built its fortunes on middle-class vacationers like my grandparents. The nation’s first two-story motels opened along Sunny Isles’ stretch of Collins Avenue. The very first may have been the Ocean Palm, built in 1949 by Norman Giller, pioneer of Miami modern, or MiMo, architecture. It’s still in business.

Not mere whimsy, the exotic architecture of Motel Row caught motorists’ eyes in an age before reservations. A pyramid-topped Hawaiian Isle, a stairway to nowhere soared from the Bon-Aire’s marquee, sculpted mermaids held up the Blue Mist’s porte-cochere.

To turn kitsch back into glitz, Sunny Isles launched an extreme makeover in 1997. Most of the five dozen classic motels are gone, yet survivors like the Sahara pop up between the Trump and other towers. A vintage postcard provides the address for the Castaways, “America’s most funderful resort motel,” and its Wreck Bar, home of the go-go dancing Wreckettes. Any remnants of the Polynesian-themed complex’s pink pagodas now rest beneath Oceania Towers.

Oasis on every block

Separating skyscrapers along Collins Avenue, new parks beckon with lush plants, fountains, fitness circuits and concert stages. Artworks include a flag-draped flamingo and a solar-powered kinetic butterfly sporting a 10-foot wingspan.

Lamp banners wave a fresh nickname: “Florida’s Riviera.”

This isn’t my grandfather’s Sunny Isles: There’s more to do, all car-free. I paddleboard in the gentle Atlantic surf, then revitalize with a fresh beet-parsley “B Happy” at Miami Juice. Tiki bars offer all-afternoon happy hours. Free shuttles take shoppers to Bal Harbour and Aventura Mall.

Pathways wind through foliage to beaches where pastel lifeguard stands and oval bathhouses add modernist flair. A wooden fishing pier juts through sea mist like a spooky apparition. Built in 1936, it was karate-chopped 69 years later by Hurricane Wilma.

At the town’s south edge, swimsuits disappear for a half-mile on Haulover Beach. One of America’s only legal naturist beaches, its amenities include lifeguards, tasteful concession stands and tactful signage.

Large, yet hidden

Jog or bike across the Intracoastal Waterway to where the Oleta River meets upper Biscayne Bay. Realizing the wetlands’ recreation potential and eco-benefits (purifying water, preventing erosion), officials turned the area into Oleta River State Park, a 1,043-acre secret.

Its pristine mangrove forests are cooled by coastal breezes and garlanded by sea grape, pigeon plum and indigo berry. Natives include white peacock butterflies, blue heron and bottle-nose dolphins. People come to paddle, hike, sail, bike paved and dirt trails, and swim in a saltwater lagoon.

At Oleta’s Blue Moon Outdoor Center, I join a kayak ride guided by Tim Brown. “We’re following the wake of the ancient Tequesta,” a peaceful tribe indigenous to South Florida.

Osprey wade along creek banks; a dolphin crests as we enter the bay. At Haulover Inlet, the estuary’s changing colors signal where salt- and freshwater mix. We paddle into Sandspur Island’s “bellybutton” via a thatch-choked tunnel. The cove’s exposed mangrove roots resemble ballerina legs dancing atop the water. During moonlight kayak rides, Brown says, the waterways are even more mysterious.

Back ashore, I test Oleta’s bike trails, which a daredevil rider named Rory calls “the best mountain biking in the Southeast.” Oleta compensates for the Sunshine State’s low altitude with obstacle courses of roots, rubble, sandpits, mud, ditches and crisscrossed logs.

Passing trailheads for “Boneyard,” “El Diablo” and “Dragon Tail,” I choose “Gilligan’s Island.” The nostalgic name belies its treacherous terrain. Soon I skid into underbrush.

“Hey!” Rory pulls up, appraising my veneer of leaves. “Congratulations — you survived the Florida mountains!” He points me to a trail traversing gentle dunes.

High-rises flash between the trees like a mirage. Where else can you find a mini-Everglades and mountain biking so close to the beach?

Seaside secrets

For lunch, locals send me to Epicure Market. It’s on Collins Avenue in the classic MiMo digs known as Wolfie Cohen’s Rascal House from 1954 until 2008. That’s where my grandparents noshed when the Beatles drew hordes of screaming fans to the Wreck Bar in February 1964.

Tapas in hand, I head to Epicure’s diamond-patterned patio. Folks mingle and munch in caftans, khakis and sundresses — pretty much the old Rascal House scene, only with less brisket and more hummus. An NFL executive confides that several players lease condos nearby “to escape the South Beach insanity.”

A woman with two lapdogs shares her secret: “Stay at the old Golden Strand. Less money, same ocean view as the high-rises.”

Another suggests Oleta park’s waterside cabins.

The Sahara’s nomad-beach bums would agree: Here, you don’t need a tower to enjoy the high life.

Robin Soslow is a Florida-based writer who covers art, food and outdoor adventure. Her email isrsoslow@gmail.com.

When you go

Getting there: Several airlines fly from Dallas to Fort Lauderdale and Miami, respectively 15 minutes and 35 minutes from Sunny Isles Beach. They include American and Spirit, both of which offer nonstop flights.

Lodging

Golden Strand Resort: Classic oceanfront efficiencies with kitchenettes and one- and two-bedroom villas from $140 per night. 17901 Collins Ave. 305-931-7000; goldenstrandresort.com.

Solé on the Ocean: Modern oceanfront high-rise featuring 249 well-appointed guestrooms and suites. From $154 per night. 17315 Collins Ave. 786-923-9300; soleontheocean.com.

Acqualina Resort & Spa: Mediterranean-theme luxurious rooms, stunningly designed oceanfront tower — worth stopping by just to look. From $400 a night. 17875 Collins Ave. 1-866-871-5713; acqualinaresort.com.

Dining

Epicure Market: Eat in the cafe, on the ocean-breezy patio or take out a meal, including curried ban salads and empanadas made to order from fresh ingredients and expertly seasoned. Breakfast, lunch, dinner and after-dinner drinks at the bar. Meals starting at $12. 17190 Collins Ave. 305-947-4581; epicuremarket.com.

Miami Juice: Zesty, creative, organic made-to-order salads (try the Israeli), sandwiches and platters from $9.95 and fresh green juices and smoothies made with fresh, seasonal produce starting at $4.95. Open 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday-Saturday. 18660 Collins Ave. 305-945-0444; miamijuice.com

Attractions

In addition to sunbathing and swimming at the lovely beaches and strolling between parks on Collins Avenue, try one of these spots:

Oleta River State Park: Just across the Intracoastal Waterway from Sunny Isles Beach, this immense natural area offers miles of mangrove and Biscayne Bay habitat to explore by canoe and kayak, paved bike and skate trails, challenging mountain biking trails, swimming and hiking. Pets permitted on leash in park; not in cabins. Cabin rentals from $55 per night. Open 8 a.m. to sundown year-round. Admission: $2 for pedestrians/bicyclists, $6 per vehicle. 3400 N.E. 163rd St., North Miami. 305-919-1846; floridastateparks.org/oletariver.

Blue Moon Outdoor Center at Oleta River State Park: Kayak, canoe, paddleboard and bike rentals; daytime and moonlight kayak tours. 305-957-3040; bluemoonmiami.com.

Haulover Beach, clothing optional: The region’s only legal naturist beach is spacious and clean. Beach gear rentals. Free. Parking $5. 10800 Collins Ave. 305-947-3525; hauloverbeach.org.
