

An Extract Of The Rev. Mr. John Wesley's Journal, From June 17, 1758, to May 5, 1760.  Bristol: Printed by William Pine, in Narrow Wine-Street. Mdcclxiv.

 Wednesday, 9. I rode to Downam Green, near Wigan, a Town wicked to a Proverb. We had a Specimen of the Manners of its Inhabitants, in the Behaviour of a Man that met us, and accosted us with such Language as would have become an Inhabitant of the Bottomless Pit. One would have thought from their Looks, that a good Part of the Congregation was of the same Spirit. But in a short Time the Word of God prevailed, and all their Fierceness melted away.
In the Evening I preached at Bolton, and on Friday, 11. about Nine at Lower Darwent, a small Village near Blackburn. At Lancaster we were informed, it was too late to cross the Sands. However we resolved too late to cross the Sands. However we resolved to make the Trial. We passed the Seven Mile Sand without Difficulty, and reached Fluckborough about Sunset.
 Saturday, 12. Setting out early, we came to Bottle; about Twenty Four measured Miles from Fluckborough, soon after Eight, having crossed the Millam Sand, without either Guide or Difficulty. Here we were informed, that we could not pass at Ravenglass, before one or two o' Clock: Whereas had we gone on,( as we afterward found,) we might have passed immediately. About Eleven we were directed to a Ford, near Muncaster Hall, which they said, we might cross at Noon. When we came thither, they told us, we could not cross. So we sat still till about One. We then found, we could have crost at Noon. However, we reached Whitehaven before Night. But I have taken my Leave of the Sand Road. I believe, it is ten measured Miles shorted than the other: But there are four Sands to pass, so far from each other, that' tis scarce possible to pass them all in a Day: Especially as you have all the Way to do with a Generation of Liars, who detain all Strangers as long as they can, either for their own Gain, or their Neighbours. I can advise no Stranger to go this Way: He may go round by Kendal and Kerswick, often in less Time, always with less Expence, and far less Trial of his Patience.
Reflecting to Day on the Case of a poor Woman, who had a continual Pain in her Stomach, I could not but remark the inexcusable Negligence of most Physicians in Cases of this Nature. They prescribed Drug upon Drug, without knowing a Jot of the Matter, concerning the Root of the Disorder. And without knowing this, they cannot cure, though they can murder the Patient. Whence came this Woman's Pain? ( Which she would never have told, had she never been questioned about it:) From fretting for the Death of her Son. And what availed Medicines, while that fretting continued? Why then do not all Physicians consider, How far Bodily Disorders are caused or influenced by the Mind? And in those Cases, which are utterly out of their Sphere, call in the Assistance of a Minister, as Ministers when they find the Mind disordered by the Body, call in the Assistance of a Physician? But why are these Cases out of their Sphere? Because they know not God. It follows, no Man can be a thorough Physician, without being an experience Christian.
 Tuesday, 15. I rode over to Lorton, a little Village at the Foot of a high Mountain. Many came from a considerable Distance, and I believe did not repent of their Labour. For they found God to be a God both of the Hills and Valleys, and no where more present than in the Mountains of Cumberland.
 Thursday, 17. I enquired into a signal Instance of Providence. When a Coal Pit runs far under the Ground, it is customary here to build a Partition Wall, from the Bottom to the Top of it, nearly from the Shaft to within three or four Yards of the End, in order to make the Air circulate, which then moves one Side of the Wall, turns at the End, and moves briskly up on the other Side. In a Pit two Miles from the Town, which ran full four Hundred Yards under the Ground, and had been long neglected, several Parts of this Wall were fallen down. Four Men were sent down to repair it. They were about three Hundred Yards from the Shaft, when the foul Air took Fire. In a Moment it tore down the Wall from End to End, and burning on till it came to the Shaft, it then burst and went off like a large Cannon. The Men instantly fell on their Faces, or they would have been burnt to Death in a few Moments. One of them who once knew the Love of God,( Andrew English,) began crying aloud for Mercy. But in a very short Time his Breath was stopped. The other three crept on their Hands and Knees, till two got to the Shaft and were drawn up; but one of them died in a few Minutes. John M'Combe was drawn up next, burnt from Head to Foot, but rejoicing and praising God. They then went down for Andrew, whom they found senseless, the very Circumstance which saved his Life. For losing his Senses, he lay flat on the Ground, and the greatest Part of the Fire went over him: Whereas had he gone forward on his Hands and Knees, he would undoubtedly have been burnt to Death. But Life or Death was welcome. For God had restored the Light of his Countenance.
 Saturday, 19. One was shewing us the Improvements, begun by Sir William Lowther. He had marked out Places for new Walks, and for Tufts of Trees, laid out a new Plan for his Gardens, begun to alter the House, and was preparing to make a little Paradise round about it. But Death came between. And how little Loss was this, if it removed him to the Paradise of God?
 Sunday, 20. I preached at Eight in an open Place at The Gins, a Village on one Side of the Town. Many were there, who never did, and never would, come to the Room. O what a Victory would Satan gain, if he could put an End to Field Preaching! But that, I trust, he never will: At least not till my Head is laid.
After preaching again at two, I took my Leave of Whitehaven, and rode to Cockermouth. At Six I reached at the End of the Market house. High and Low, Rich and Poor, attended. And by far the greater Part of the Audience seemed to be conscious, That God was there.
 Monday, 21. I preached at Ten in the Market Place at Wigton, and came to Solway Frith, just as the Water was fordable. At some Times it is so, Three Hours in Twelve; at other Times, barely One.
After making a short Bait at Rothwell, we came to Dumfries before six o' Clock. Having Time to spare, we took a Walk in the Church Yard, one of the pleasantest Places I ever saw. A single Tomb I observed there, which was about a Hundred and Thirty Years old. But the Inscription was very hardly legible.
 Quandoquidem remanent ipsis quoq fata Sepulchris!
So soon do even our Sepulchres die! Strange, that Men should be so careful about them! But are not many self-condemned therein? They see the Folly, while they run into it. So poor Mr. Prior, speaking of his own Tomb, has those melancholy Words," For this last Piece of human Vanity, I bequeath five Hundred Pounds."
 Tuesday, 22. We rode through a pleasant Country, to Thorny hill, near which is the grand Seat of the Duke of Queensborough. How little did the late Duke imagine, that his Son would Plow up his Park, and let his House run to ruin! But let it go? In a little Time the Earth itself and all the Works of it shall be bunt up.
Hence we rode through, and over huge Mountains, green to the very Top, to Lead Hills, a Village containing five hundred Families, who have had no Minister for these four Years. So in Scotland, the poor have not the Gospel preached! We shall answer for the Blood of these Men?
Early in the Evening we came to Lesinabágow, a Village not so large as Lead Hills. It has however Two Ministers. Here also we walked down to the Church Yard, by the Side of which a little, clear River runs, near the Foot of an high and steep Mountain. The Wood which covers this makes the Walks that run on its Sides, pleasant beyond Imagination. But what Taste have the good People of the Town for this? As much as the Animals that graze on the River Bank.
 Wednesday, 23. We took Horse soon after four, and did not stop before we came to Glasgow: Having hardly seen a Cloud in the Sky, since we set out from Whitehaven.
I Preached at seven in the Poor House: And at seven in the Morning, Thursday, 24. But in the Evening we were obliged to be abroad, and I used great Plainness of Speech. All suffered the Word of Exhortion: Some seemed to be a little affected.
 Saturday, 26. I found the little Society which I had joined here two Years since had soon split in Pieces. In the Afternoon I met several of the Members of the praying Societies; and shewed them what Christian Fellowship was, and what need they had of it? About forty of them met me on Sunday, 27. in Mr. Gillie's Kirk, immediately after Evening Service. I left them determined to meet Mr. Gillies weekly, at the same Time and Place. If this be done; I shall try to see Glasgow again. If not, I can employ my Time better.
At seven in the Morning we had a numerous Congregation, though small compared to that in the Evening. Yet my Voice was so strengthened, that I believe all could hear. I spoke very plain on, Ye must be Born again. Now I am clear of the Blood of this People. I have delivered my own Soul.
 Monday, 28. I rode through Edinburgh to Musselbourgh, and preached in the Evening to a deeply attentive Congregation. Wednesday, 30. I rode on to Dunbar, and at six in the Evening, preached in a large, open Place,( as also the next Day.) Both poor and rich quietly attended, though most of them shivering with Cold: For the Weather was so changed within a few Days, that it seemed more like December than May.

