

Tours To The British Mountains, With The Descriptive Poems Of Lowther, And Emont Vale. By Thomas Wilkinson.

The Power that spread the seas, the heavens sublime, Bade round our vales majestic mountains rise! With interest high the fearful steeps we climb, Whose towering summits seem to reach the skies.
England. A Day's Tour To Langdale Pikes.

Being on a visit to the worthy family of Smith at Coniston, and enjoying the pleasure of a fine summer evening's ramble amid their delightful scenery, a sail on their beautiful lake was proposed for the next morning. My young female friends had learned the use of the oar, and they offered to row me themselves down the lake; but having seen Langdale Pikes rising amid the clouds, I rather preferred visiting them: the proposal was readily agreed to, as the journey would be as new to them as me. My female companions rose at three in the morning, but it rained: however, by six it cleared up. We soon collected, and, in the stile of Queen Elizabeth, breakfasted on bread and beef. We made a hearty, but not a long meal; and, with our provisions in our pockets and our staves in our hands, we departed, tripping along the road as light-heeled and light-hearted as the roes of the mountains.
Silver clouds were thinly scattered over the heavens, while their shadows beautifully chequered the earth; numerous white cottages were smoking in the valleys below, or on sundry little eminences around us; the peasants were going forth to their labour; the cattle, relieved of their milk, were returning to their pastures; the sun was warm, the air was still; while the Lake of Coniston, reflecting the blooming landscape, seemed slumbering in native beauty. Through such scenery we proceeded, our minds exulting amid the glories of nature, and glowing with benevolence. Our conversation was cheerful and simply sentimental; yet, like a group of Indians, we sometimes passed on in silence. We had no servants following nor lap-dogs sporting around us; yet we were occasionally accompanied by a sociable butterfly, which winged her way before us, then perched on a pebble till we came up, and then set off again.
Having ascended an eminence, we made a halt to look both ways; and few stations, by turning on the heel, afforded so strong a contrast. If we looked back, we saw below us the Lake of Coniston, with its bays and woody points, stretching a long way: if we looked forward, we had Raven Crag right before us; an immense assemblage of not very lofty mountains,-- rather of clustering crags,-- rugged and broken in the finest manner. We pursued our long journey along its base; but our eyes were often turned towards its summit, till at length we had left it in our rear, and other mountains offered themselves to our inspection, some of them of savage aspect, which to a stranger might suggest savage inhabitants, and portend danger; but here all was peace and pastoral tranquillity. Yet the tranquillity of these pastoral regions is often disturbed, and the ear of the stranger is often startled, by the blowing up of the slate-rocks; while the tremendous echoes are thundered through the mountains.
We now descended into a valley, and traversed the level shores of Elter Water. After various windings we passed a bridge, and entered Langdale. Here we paused in admiration of the objects before us, which formed a very noble scene for the pencil. In the foreground was a rapid river, foaming over a rugged channel; on the right was Langdale Chapel, whose humble roof was scarce distinguished from a few scattered cottages that surrounded it, which assimilated with the workings of the slate. These contrasted well with a beautiful woody eminence on the left. In the center, in solemn majesty rose a stupendous mountain, that bore on its frowning forehead The Pikes of Langdale, which seemed like pillars to support the heavens.
We pursued our route through the Vale of Langdale, which we found more considerable than we had supposed. Yet we sometimes turned aside to explore the slate quarries, which, had it not been for the implements of labour they contained, would hardly have been conceived to be the works of man, but rather huge caverns and grottoes scooped out of the mountains by the hand of Nature. In some places they rose in rugged and lofty arches, that almost excluded daylight: in others, with shaggy, rifted, perpendicular walls, which seemed like prodigious castles or dungeons with their roofs fallen in. Some of these immense caverns were of pale blue, the native colour of the new-wrought rocks: over others, that had been long left, Time had thrown a reddish tint, which added to their solemnity.
As we passed along, the road became elevated, and near a respectable looking house a very sublime scene opened before us. Beneath our feet lay the Vale of Langdale, with its river, its green fields, and scattered cottages smoking amid their tufts of trees. On either hand, particularly to the east, far up the sides of lofty mountains, were beautiful enclosures: right before us rose an immense mountain,( before described, but much nearer,) that seemed a termination to this part of the world, crowned with the Pikes of Langdale that shoot into the clouds. We entered a gate and sat us down beneath some trees, when these noble features of Nature were delineated by my companions. We rose to pursue our journey, and were admiring the situation of the just-mentioned house, when, to our utter surprise, not a glimpse of the mountain or valley was to be seen! I feel something of respect for the hand that plants a tree; but to have raised such an impenetrable cloud of wood before such an interesting prospect, was among the tasteless occurrences of human actions that could hardly have been conceived.
Arrived at the foot of the mountain, I entered a cottage to enquire concerning the ascent. I met with an aged woman, whose countenance was sorrowful, and she little noticed my enquiries. I advanced a little farther, and saw in the parlour an old man propped up in his chair, pale and languid, and breathing with great difficulty, with some younger persons standing pensively beside him. I conceived him to be her dying husband. Alas! at that moment how different were his views and ours!-- yet the moment at which he is arrived will assuredly arrive to us. I retired, sorry at the intrusion.
We now began to ascend. Juliet and I traversed the surface of the mountain: her sisters ascended in a straight direction; but on our recommendation they adopted our plan, and certainly in such an ascent the waving walk is easiest and best. We sometimes turned round to survey the sinking vales and diminished objects beneath us, and found that objects that appeared great when we were among them, were, from the point we now surveyed them, dwindled into mere nothings; while rocks and points of mountains, that were scarce discernible from the plains, were now grown into mighty and overwhelming masses.
The time was now approaching when we were to make our election what peak was to be visited in preference to the rest; but while we were thus debating and slowly ascending, we found on our right a great body of water lodged in the bosom of the mountain. Its surface was calm, and reflected the dark and towering crags that rose from its margin; which crags seemed to be the base of the eastern pyramid. With these impenetrable bars on our right, we turned to the left and kept still ascending, till we came to the foot of another prodigious rock, which we deemed the base of the middle Pike. The summit of the stupendous mountain we had ascended is crowned with three lofty pikes, all composed of terrific and perpendicular rocks, frowning with dreadful majesty. Seen from the valleys below, they appear to rise at no great distance from each other; but when the mountain is ascended, the traveller may toil with many a weary step ere his labours reach from one to another; and he may look with alarm on many a frightful precipice ere he ascend to the summit of their terrific pinnacles. That to the north-west seems the lowest, but most regular and conical; that to the south is next in elevation, but more broken and rugged. That to the east overlooks the rest, and indeed all these mountainous regions; and rises in masses of immense rocks that are beheld with horror, and whose forms cannot be ascertained. At a distance, the eye shapes them into somewhat regular forms; but exploring their tremendous recesses, the traveller is alarmed and bewildered. To these sublime and dreadful regions I ascended with my intrepid maids, and was the first to express anything like fear. Catherine, who feels a kindness for the whole creation, offered me her hand; while Elizabeth, with a courage I had never met with before, proposed to explore what remained, and, winding round the corner of a rock, presently ascended out of sight. I have felt pain from the absence of those I value; the absence of Elizabeth was terribly extended, and was accompanied with feelings of distress. From some situations at a great distance, Langdale Pikes had appeared like prodigious pillars: it somehow or other suddenly impressed me as if we were high up on the side of one of these pillars, and in danger of slipping down. Under these impressions, Elizabeth's absence was a period of dreadful suspense: I knew not whether she might be clambering up the cliffs above us, or falling down the precipices below;-- her sisters, too, began to think her long. But we were at length relieved by her calling to us from the cliffs over our heads. In her descent she had missed her way, and got on a shelf of rocks higher than that on which we sat. However, we soon got all together again, and joyfully eat our dinners amid these aerial halls of Nature. Who is there that need be discouraged at undertakings, however apparently arduous? For perhaps ten years I had projected an expedition to this alpine mountain, and this day it was accomplished: but who would ever have conceived that I should have been led on by such amiable conductors?
The clouds were now collecting in the south, which hastened our descent down the mountain; yet the threatened rain did not prevent our visiting the waterfall in Dungeon Gill; where, in a fissure of the mountain, and inclosed by gloomy rocks, a considerable stream is discovered tumbling from a lofty precipice into a deep and dark bason. Near the summit of, and over this cataract, a natural bridge is elegantly suspended. From the tremendous wall of rock, two lofty and pointed rocks project, between which an enormous mass of the same, in the form of a wedge, has found its way, and completes this sublime arch, which the stranger surveys with admiration, but shudders at the idea of passing.
When we arrived in the valley we turned to the high end of Langdale, and beheld it surrounded by a magnificent assemblage of mountains towering among the mists, and magnified by the rain. We returned through Little Langdale; through Yewdale, with its venerable yew-tree; and through the delightful valley of Tilberthwaite, with its hundred woody knolls.
The skies were now pouring down upon us, and the brooks were rising as we passed along;-- the scenes must have been beautiful, and we must have had a disposition to enjoy them, for, drenched as we were with rain, we were still pleased and interested. If hedges and rivulets crossed our way, and I lamented our difficulties, there was never anything worse than a smile on the part of my female companions: the walls were climbed and the rivulets were waded; and after being eleven hours on our feet, and walking between twenty and thirty miles, we arrived in safety; and our return was crowned with no light felicity in seeing Captain Smith again among his family: in the morning it was not known but that he might be gone with his regiment to Egypt.
The Man Mountain.

The Man Mountain of Coniston, called in the neighbourhood Coniston Old Man, rises majestically on the opposite side of the lake. This we had often talked of ascending; and paying my annual visit to this truly estimable family, several years after our former journey, I proposed it. Two of my companions to Langdale Pikes could tread no more mountains with me! Excellent Elizabeth, it is known, died in 1806; and the amiable Catherine died on the borders of Italy, where her husband had taken her for the recovery of her health. The subject of my enterprize being under consideration, Juliet Smith, who excels in planning this sort of operations, observed, that two servants from Tent Lodge had ascended the day before, and the stronger of them( from Bath) might go again and be my guide. On being called up, he declared that he would not undertake such a journey again upon any consideration; for, if it had not been for a guide from the slate quarries, they would never have got to the top; so I was recommended to take my aim at the slate quarries, for a guide.
I had rode nineteen miles in the morning; and, having dined, set off at three o'clock, no way discouraged at my great full object before me. The Man Mountain of Coniston is a fine stately British Alp; at its base lies the beautiful village of Coniston, scattered among groves and green fields: the white cottages contrast well with the woods and inclosures. The form of the mountain on the left is a gradual ascent from its base to its summit. On the right ascends a secondary mountain, steep and rugged: ridges, furrows of rocks, like a ploughed field, compose its front; and its summit is crowned with grandeur and wildness. Between this and the Man Mountain is a deep valley, from which the majestic mountain rises very abrupt, if not in some places perpendicular. The side of the mountain to the right is also terribly steep; so to scale it in these directions seemed to me impracticable.
When about to leave the inclosures, I met the last workman from the slate-quarries; so I could obtain no guide there: and I came up with a man and a woman; so I had three counsellors, and asked their advice how I might best accomplish my object. The man answered me gravely and judiciously; the woman seemed to take more interest in my undertaking; but some of her observations were so odd, that I should not like to see them standing on paper, much less to have them verified. They ended emphatically with this opinion," You will never get there to-night!" There is a toil in travelling that induces depression; consequently, it may not be amiss in these exertions to introduce a little cheerfulness: but there are bounds even to this, therefore I shall not quote farther my honest female adviser.
Deep chasms and awful precipices made the attempt rather appalling; but I thought I might pursue my object while there was a path. Having no guide, I cautiously reconnoitred the ground, and chose mostly to ascend where rocks rose on either hand; so that I was generally walled in from danger. I think at least half of the surface of the mountain is covered with rocks and stones, the other half with vegetation; and I do not remember to have climbed a mountain whose ascent was so pleasant, safe, and comfortable; for if my foot had slipped, I could not have fallen more than two or three yards till I should have been lodged against a rock:-- then tumbling adds to the variety of such a tour; and if one tumble, one has the pleasure of getting up again. I steadily proceeded, and to a considerable height, when two human figures with spades on their shoulders crossed my way; but they immediately vanished, and I saw them no more.
My way now became less and less steep, till I stood on the summit of the Man Mountain: but it moved not beneath me. A vast quantity of stones are scattered on its crown, from which a Pike( perhaps from beneath called The Old Man) is rudely formed on the brink of a precipice towards Coniston. I added seven stones to the fabric, but declined looking down, for I wished not my present tranquillity to be disturbed by giddiness. In like manner I declined looking down the precipice on Lever Tarn; but I directed my attention to the west, where the progeny of mountains was numerous, and exhibited great variety. Some of the nearest neighbours of the Man Mountain attempted to look as loftily as himself: others exhibited themselves like the ridges of houses; on which, seeing their steep sides, I should not have trusted myself to walk. But black clouds now came rolling among them, and interrupted the prospect in that direction; so I looked to the south, and saw lakes, lower mountains, and the cheering effects of thriving cultivation.
We all know how delightful it is to sit down to rest after a long walk in a warm day; this I did, and enjoyed it in perfection, though not in an arbour of roses. But though I had not the hues or the fragrance of gardens around me, yet the objects with which I was surrounded were not the less interesting. It is but few that spend many days of their lives on the highest points of high mountains; therefore, such a situation, under a serene sky and above a varied landscape, could not fail to fasten the attention.
Clouds now came between the sun and me; yet its declining beams illuminated the scenes that I had left: towards these I again descended. Having succeeded so well in my ascent, I was less careful in my return, and got involved among the rocks; but it was not amiss to have a little sprinkling of terror in the expedition. I joined my friends to tea at seven o'clock in the evening.
Black Comb.

Being on a visit to some friends on the north-west shore of Lancashire, and being under a promise to visit an old neighbour of mine settled in Milham, I passed over into Cumberland at Broughton, where I met with an instance of the inaccurate description of distances, which is often inconvenient to strangers. I had been told that Po House was three miles beyond Broughton: when I arrived there in the dusk of the evening, I was informed it was seven. I was a stranger, and alone; but endeavoured to follow my direction, till every object around me was hidden in darkness, and I was utterly at a loss. A glimmering light, however, from a cottage window revived a little hope: I rode up to it; and calling out, a man and his family came to the door. I enquired the way and the distance to Po House:-- I was told it was four miles; but all directions in total darkness were utterly useless. The answers I received to my questions, and the manner in which they were given, gained my confidence; so I requested the master of the cottage to go with me, and I would satisfy him for his trouble. We set off: finding he was a labouring man, I desired he would get up behind me; which he did. He amused me with anecdotes of his country as we jogged soberly on; and when we were silent, I amused myself with thinking that, when we made the agreement, there was ten times greater risk that I should be lost, than that I should be robbed: so that, perhaps, he may allow that I did not act unwisely; and I will cheerfully certify that my guide conducted me in safety to where I wanted to be.
I found next morning that the dwelling of my friend was at the foot of a tremendous rock, and that Black Comb towered over the landscape. I was desirous of ascending this distinguished mountain; but when I made known my inclination, I was prevailed on to defer the attempt, by what I was convinced was an erroneous statement of the length of the way, and the length of the time necessary the ascend and return from the mountain. But it was an error unlike that which I had experienced last evening: there the distance was greatly diminished, here it was much magnified; for I was told that if we set off at eight in the morning to visit Black Comb, it would be six in the evening before we returned. So, unconvinced, I gave way for the present.
We now turned our backs on Black Comb, and visited Milham Castle. This ancient mansion is situate among fine woods, has an extensive park, and a beautiful place of solitary worship not many paces from its walls. The afternoon was spent in reading and conversation, and in reviving the memory of those that are departed, and days that are over and gone.
The second morning was as inviting as the first, and I renewed my proposals of visiting Black Comb. The difficulty and distance had not diminished in the minds of those who opposed me, and the undertaking grew less and less formidable in my view. My kind host had never been there, so he spoke not with decision either way; but the opposition was so strong that I gave it up for the morning. The sky was clear at mid-day, so I determined to go; and the kindness of hospitality gave us an early dinner, and we set off at one o'clock. As ardour is not always coupled with wisdom, we did not seek by a circuitous path the easiest ascent, but aimed at the summit of the mountain in a right line: yet when we got on its steeps, though not rocky, we were obliged to meander. The afternoon was warm; my companions often sat down. In that I was not sociable: perhaps, having heard so much about our long journey, and being all strangers, I thought of taking care that we should not be left on the mountain in the dark.
After several pauses, and perhaps twenty rests, which did not take up much time, we fell into a commodious path which conducted us to the summit of the mountain. If we had entered this path on leaving the valley, we should have had the gentlest ascent that I remember up the sides of any mountain,-- except, perhaps, that of Pendle Hill.
It is said that, coming from Ireland, Black Comb is the first object that is seen by the mariner. Having travelled little by sea, I do not know what circumstances make mountains most distinguishable: if it is from the darkness of their hue, Black Comb is likely to be seen first; for, from the gloomy heath on its upper surface, the mountain seems rightly called. The base of the mountain being on the sea-shore, the prospect from its summit abounds with great variety. The sublime ocean occupies one half of the circumference: rising from its surface, on the south, are seen Peel Castle and the Isle of Wallney. The Isle of Man is a conspicuous object in the west. A fine indented coast is the bulwark of Cumberland against the sea; on which are seen Egremont, Bootle, Mulcaster, Ravenglass, Broughton, and the peculiarly beautiful shores of Duddon. Far in the east is an assemblage of mountains that we supposed to be those of Coniston and Ambleside: perhaps Hardknot and Wrynose, Langdale Pikes and Helvellyn.
After satisfying ourselves with these scenes, we began to descend. The sun lay below us on a vast mirror of silver, save that it was divided in twain by a pitchy cloud that overshadowed a third of its expanse. This gave a dark solemnity to the scene, that seemed ominous of coming storms. We were again in the vales before sun-set, and at our tea between five and six o'clock.
I rose early next morning to take my leave, but the cloud that hung over the sea had been a true sign of what was in progress, for the day was so tempestuous I hardly crossed the threshold. I approached Po House in darkness, and left it next morning before it was light. I had a certain distance to go in a given time, and the time was too short: I rode quick, and did not know the way, though I had travelled it before. On a sudden my mare went on unwillingly, and leaned to one side. The sagacity of animals is sometimes worthy of being recorded. I urged her forward, but she grew no better: I let her have her way: she turned round, bounded from the road, hurried back to the place where she became uneasy, took a different direction, and went on pleasantly after in the right way.
I arrived at Fell Foot at the foot of Winandermere. There I found Mary Dixon at the head of her table, carving for between forty and fifty juvenile guests. She had established a school; these were her scholars, and she was giving them a farewell dinner. It was a cheering sight: but when I accompanied her to her school, and her make them presents and bid them farewell, it was touching to see them shed tears on resigning their benefactor. Mary Dixon was the daughter of Smeaton who built the Edystone Lighthouse, and was an uncommon woman. I have some happy specimens of her poetic talent; and her eight drawings of the Hebride Isles, and one general view of these islands rising above a turbulent sea, also shew how she excelled with her pencil.
Bampton. -- Haws Water.

Many of my little journeys are alone. One morning, about Midsummer, I took my course through the Vale of Bampton. The lanes were bordered by wild roses, some of them pale as the lily, and others blushed warm in the mountain air. I began to wind among mountains:-- clouds of wood on one side contrasted well with the shadow of clouds on the other. As I approached the vicinity of Haws Water I entered among sheep-farms, and was gratified in seeing the inhabitants of these valleys preparing for or busy with sheep-shearing; which is an occasion of exertion and of merriment, and may be compared to the time of vintage among the southern countries of Europe. Gathering from the mountains is the employment of the preceding day; when the timid inhabitants of the higher regions and their offspring hurry down the steeps from their pursuers, the rocks and caverns echoing to the clamour of dogs and the shouts of shepherds. The poor sheep, when parting with its fleece, lies mute as the victim for slaughter. When released from their bonds, the clamour and confusion of anxious mothers in search of their infant offspring, and the cries of numerous offspring for their lost mothers, are musically plaintive: but as they ascend the mountain, the storm of affection is over in five minutes, the young lambs pacing contentedly by the sides of their parents.
Kidsty Pike.

I Alighted at Riggindale, surrounded by sheep-folds in abundance; and purposing to ascend Kidsty Pike, had my horse put into the stable. On discovering what I intended, my kind hostess opposed my going alone: however, alone I set off; but had not gone far up the mountain when I heard a shrill whistle, and, turning around, saw a young female following me at full speed:-- it was her daughter who had come after me to be my guide: she had often been a shepherdess on Kidsty Pike; her father's sheep fed there in summer; and now her information respecting their pastoral employment, the names of the valleys, the rocks, and the mountains, enlivened our ascent.
In a rock, a few yards from the highest point of the mountain, is a spring. They tell us in the neighbourhood, that a few years ago a thunderbolt struck the rock, and that the spring since has not been so copious. Kidsty Pike descends in the middle, and at the extremities rises in two peaks, perhaps half a mile asunder. Riding near Shap this day twelvemonth with a young woman that lived at the foot of Saddleback, I pointed her attention to Kidsty Pike, and she exclaimed," Saddleback!" The summits of the two mountains are formed alike. I was amused with the mistake, and enjoyed it for some time: but the real Saddleback rising in the distance, and seen near Burns for a couple of hundred yards, settled his claim to the appellation.
A gauze in the atmosphere magnified the altitude of mountains: the lowest contents of the valleys could not be seen. I saw nothing to a great distance but a world of dark mountains; Nanbield, Highstreet, Harterfell, Catchedicam, were pointed out to me by Jane Greenhow. But I am not now contemplating altogether a world of shade: on favoured spots the sun broke forth, and on grey rocks shone with great beauty. These rocks were fringed with green, and it altogether seemed a dark ground set with brilliants.
Chapel Hill.

Descending from Kidsty Pike, my attention is directed to the valleys. Lake and mountain-scenery is unvarying in the progress of time, save occasionally in the introduction of wood, and the beautiful accompaniments of cottages and farmhouses. In the valleys through which I am now advancing, the cottages, sheltered by a few sycamores, are built from and assimilate well with the grey rocks of the mountains; and their rustic architecture has not changed for ages. This suggests contentment in the inhabitants; and contentment is a pleasing idea to entertain of one's fellow-creatures. However, two exceptions have just arisen in these valleys to their ancient modes of building: but the one is by a resident in a great commercial town, therefore does not apply to the natives. The other I regret; for the change is wrought on a scene that I have admired from my youth, for cottage interest, simple magnificence, and picturesque beauty. At Chapel Hill, in a corner of the world, stood a simple cottage among rocks, woods, and solitary mountains: it bore on its varied roofs and numerous gable-ends the marks of former centuries; its owners had lived there in succession for many generations. A few paces took them to Madale Chapel, their place of worship; and when they died, their long home was on their own premises. They were surrounded by woody knolls; and these knolls were surrounded by lofty mountains. Most of these remain, and will remain. I only regret that the ancient cottage, with its accompaniments, is superseded by the modern house, with its five windows in front. I should have preferred at Madale Hill the ancient cottage, with its antiquated windows, its lowly roof fringed with moss, and its chimneys smoking through the trees, as the abode of quiet and the home of solitude.
Long Sleddale.

After pursuing my winding way over Harterfell I came down on the valley of Long Sleddale; which, on an average, may be half a mile wide, mostly a level mixture of arable and meadow ground: then hanging woods and rising pastures ascend from the vale, and terminate in sheep-walks on the mountains. Perhaps this beautiful valley is pretty much divided into similar estates. At the foot of the rising ground, every quarter of a mile, is placed a farmhouse, with its out-offices; and on an eminence midway in the valley stands a place of worship, and near it a school, round which a number of healthy black-eyed children were playing. In one place, and almost out of sight, is a cluster of cottages; perhaps about thirty cottages accommodate its inhabitants; and it was pleasant to descend down his pastoral valley, where the river and the road wind together for four or five miles.
Coming out of Long Sleddale, I found myself among a different race of people. I met carriages and horsemen, and was passed by post-chaises and mail-coaches; and all this in situations not naturally superior to those that I had left. But roads have wonderfully wound their way through all the nations of Europe; and Westmorland is not now behind in bringing her efforts to the common stock of accommodation. The people of Westmorland are likely to beat the Romans; they are bringing to a level, vales twenty yards deep and a hundred yards across, at two thousand pounds' expense. Hills are sinking before them, and valleys rising; so that, on the road between Penrith and Kendal, once one of the most uneven in the kingdom, the man may walk without being out of breath, and the horse may draw his load without oppression. A Roman road, when now met with, is viewed as a piece of curious antiquity; but this road, except the island is visited by some great convulsion of nature or some strange revolution in human affairs, will continue a monument of the industry of the present generation, and an accommodation to mankind through future ages.
Helvellyn.

Perhaps it may now be time to introduce the reader to Helvellyn, who, amid the mountainous regions by which she is surrounded, may not improperly be designated their Mountain Queen; both from her situation, the stern dignity of her appearance, and the crowd of mountain-courtiers with whom she is surrounded. Helvellyn stands between the peculiarly interesting valleys of Patterdale and Grassmere; looking down on the former, and on the winding glories of Ullswater. On her head is a tiara, with three points: her two handmaids, Stridon Edge and Swirril Edge, stand on her right hand and on her left; while her page, Catchedicam, stands at a little distance. Many noble eminences, beautiful valleys, and sweets habitations, may be said to be within her dominions; yet, like those of other monarchs, some of her dominions may be out of sight.
I remember once, in the Spring, being under an engagement with three sisters to ascend Helvellyn: they more than once reminded me of my promise; but not liking the idea of encountering wreaths of snow and sheets of ice, I delayed attending their summons, in hopes of a more genial season, when the sheep would show us the way. When next we met, they chid me for my want of punctuality. I defended my conduct on the ground of prudence, and proceeded with pleasant anticipations of our mountain journey some sunny day, as the snows were now dissolving. They triumphantly replied, that the week before they had shod their staffs with iron, and made their journey without me. I now addressed them in the language of pity for cold fingers and frozen toes. They ridiculed my effeminacy, telling me that they had all three made the summit of Helvellyn without a guide; and that they were so delighted with their excursion, that two of them repeated their journey the next day. I now willingly relinquished the palm of hardihood to these intrepid maids; and it will not be likely to be regained by some of my degenerate countrymen, whom I found not long after hunting with umbrellas in their hands.
Not having had the pleasure of ascending this celebrated mountain( at least to its summit) in female society, I have at different times wound up its lofty steeps with intelligent companions of my own sex. In one of our excursions the day was calm as we ascended the eastern side of the mountain; but as we approached the summit, the wind grew violent from the west: we tightened our hatbands, and, for safety, walked to windward of the narrow ridge, as the other side seemed a stupendous, though not perpendicular precipice. A sudden puff now rudely uncovered one of my companions, and set off with his hat: he immediately commenced the pursuit; his hands were outspread, his hair and his clothes flew on the wind, and he seemed at times lifted from the earth by the strength of the blast, while his hat took long strides like a person in a dream. We followed the chase, which seemed diverting enough, till it was out of sight; then it became terribly alarming, lest it should terminate in a downfal: but we understood our poor friend got his foot upon the runaway vagabond just before it went down the precipice.
Having attained the summit of the mountain, six lakes of different forms and magnitude were presented to our view;-- Windermere, Ullswater, Coniston, Bassenthwaite, Esthwaite, and Wythburn; with many smaller plots of water, fifty or sixty acres, that would be ornamental in pleasure-grounds. The sea is also seen near Ulverston, Cartmel, Millthorp, and at Solway Firth. Many mountains also rise in distant prospect; amongst which are Crossfell, Skiddaw, Langdale Pikes, Ingleborough, and Saddleback.
While we were surveying the vast variety around us, the scene vanished, the skies became black, and the valleys below were suddenly filled with rain. However, there was one exception to the general darkness. In the west, between the lofty summits of two dimly-seen mountains, appeared a soft, shining, silvery light: at first we seemed rather at a loss to account for so beautiful a phenomenon; but soon concluded it was the sun shining on the ocean, beyond the clouds of these mountains. The transitions from light to darkness, and from darkness to light, are often sudden in these regions: the sun again soon illumined our elevations, and we soon beheld again the natural magnificence of this world: we beheld the majesty of rocks, the terror of precipices, and the towering altitude of mountains. Standing on Helvellyn, we look over a vast tract of mountainous country; but the most prominent objects, and those which we see with the greatest distinctness, are the lofty summits of mountains, as they point towards the sky. Behind them are many interesting scenes that are hid from us by the vast masses of intervening mountains; while beneath are longs vistas of variously mingled landscape, the objects indistinctly seen. Indeed our powers of visions are so diminished by distance, that stately edifices often appear on the landscape, from these elevations, Only like white peas: and again, the magnitude of nature reduces so far the works of art, that if Paul's Cathedral were placed in Patterdale, and we descending down the mountain to survey it, its dome would only appear like a bee-hive on a horsing-stone.
Then, again, we are as limited in the objects of sound as of sight. The silence of mountains is unbroken by the sweet sounds of the plains and the valleys. The ardent conversations and busy hums of mankind in their cities, their towns, and their villages, are unknown there. And it is as well that we are not all-seeing and all-hearing; for an extension of these senses would but, perhaps, lead to confusion, and tempt us to neglect our own business. Yet as the object of these pages was in the first instance to record my own enjoyments when travelling through the works of nature, and then, as the idea is now entertained, to spread them before others; perhaps to put the reader in possession of some of the names that occur in these lofty solitudes will not be unacceptable to him, whether they be ranged in rhyme or appear promiscuously in prose. If the former is preferred, would it not be in character for the reader and me just to step a little down the mountain together and drink at the Helicon of Helvellyn?
Amid a vast circumference around Sleeps many a name of high poetic sound-- Ruffell and Rosegill, Celleren, are here; Sharrah, Carthannack, and Carhullan there; Threlkeld and Thulbar, Mardale, Bodale, Whale, Glenwyn, Glenridding, Gunnerkell, and Gale; Watinlath, Hallin, Lowther, Lyulph's Tower, Howgowen's fairy-hill, and Gillian's bower; Blencarn, Blencathra, Beula, Wolfa cold, Penrith, Penruddock, and Pendragon old. --
But bundling up names in rhyme is an unnatural business; therefore I shall again betake myself to plain prose, in which the reader will perhaps like as well to see the respectable names of Calder, Rydal, Derwent, Sizergh, Egremont, Elleray, Ulpha, Uldale, Colddale, Deepdale, Fuscdale, Ennerdale, Embleton, Brathay, Rothay, Gabel, Glaramara, Trover,& c.
In our descent from Helvellyn we joined a mountain-maid, conducting a hurdle of peats into the valley. She set a foot on each corner of the sledge behind the hurdle, which she steadied with one hand, and with the other held the reins that guided her horse. Thus stationed, with the bloom of health on her countenance, she drove with as much agility and spirit down the mountain as the fair citizen does her curricle along the level streets of London.
Looking from beneath, the barren altitudes of mountains may seem useless specks on the surface of this world; but, on nearer inspection, they will be found to bear marks of wisdom and goodness in the divine mind of the Creator. Even man finds many accommodations on mountains: they furnish him with fuel; they furnish him with clothing from the fleeces of the sheep; and they furnish him with a luxury for his table, in the birds that inhabit the heath. They furnish a lasting and beautiful cover for his houses in a sky-coloured slate: and then the precious metals and brilliant stones are often drawn from the recesses of mountains. Then they also furnish the plains and the valleys with noble rivers; and perhaps they contribute to the salubrity of the air, which might become stagnant and even putrid, if the world was a dead flat. Then, among the inferior orders of creation, the mountains are their happy dwellings. They are a paradise for sheep, who, as summer advances, will escape from the valleys to range their highest summits. Even the noblest birds are at home on the summits of mountains, alternately visiting one another in their airy halls, or sporting in the clouds and sailing in the sunbeams.
Crossfell.

Eastward and alone, as if retiring from the society of other mountains, stands Crossfell, which I ascended without difficulty; though by some it has been placed highest on the list of English mountains; and standing so far inland, and on so high a base, it may not be much their inferior. It is the centre and summit of a long and magnificent chain of mountains. The mighty chain is nowhere divided by valleys, but little dips in the mountain distinguish different parts, to which are given different names. On one side Crossfell is supported by Dunfell; on the other by Hartside. At its base stand three verdant sugar-loaves; to wit, Knock, Murton, and Dufton Pikes. This vast wall of mountain stretches perhaps forty or fifty miles; it might seem to be the boundary of a principality. Not being broken into distinct mountains, there are no winding valleys where retiring taste might explore human habitations in all their loneliness: but from its summit, assisted by a perspective-glass, more villages might be discovered rising in the dis - tance, than perhaps are seen from any mountain in England.
From the summit of Crossfell is seen an extensive, though not a level plain. It stretches south and westward in many places, perhaps twenty or thirty miles, till it is intercepted by the bold Wildboarfell, the majestic Helvellyn, the mighty Blencathra, and the circumscribing ocean. Rising on an eminence, in the centre of the plain, is seen the obelisk of Penrith Beacon. The city of Carlisle, the town of Penrith, and the numerous villages of Westmorland and Cumberland, are not distinctly visible; but the eye stretches over a prospect that comprehends perhaps forty or fifty thousand inhabitants. Their labours are seen in their smoking towns and villages, their corn-fields, and their green inclosures.
Crossfell, though not remote from the neighbourhood of the Lakes, belongs to a different order of mountains than those that surround Windermere, Ullswater, Derwent, and Wastwater: it runs on in a long continuity through different counties, while these mighty masses are mostly distinct mountains, between which wind up narrow valleys, peopled by gentlemen, yeomen, and shepherds, who live amicably together, save that they have sometimes a few high words about their sheep-walks. Even shepherds are sometimes as jealous of en - croachments on their ancient sheep-feedings, as monarchs are about the limits of their seas, and the boundaries of their dominions. Perhaps in these pastoral brawls one of the combatants, with his back against a rock, commences the attack with a loud volley of opprobrious epithets, while his antagonist, from a trembling peatmoss, repels the onset with personal implications and family allusions; the dogs all the while with loud clamours manoeuvering the fleecy troops over the debatable ground. Having exhausted their ammunition they separate, each striding homeward with an air of triumph and defiance. The family collected, they narrate, over their pottage, their exploits in abuse. Now all this is an exception to pastoral simplicity and kindness. However, when the lost sheep is discovered on the distant mountain, the intelligence runs through a line of ready shepherds to the owner, and they willingly assist him in recovering the wanderer. It is but by the free sheep-walks that there is so little of loving our neighbours as ourselves.
A singular phenomenon, called The Helm Winds, attaches to Crossfell. An assemblage of pale clouds extends on the summit of the mountain; and, when all is calm on the plains, a roaring like the sea is heard to a considerable distance. I was once involved in the Helm Winds:-- if I advanced, it was with my head inclined to the ground, and at a slow pace; if I retreated and leaned against it with all my might, I could hardly keep erect; if I did not resist it, I was blown over. A wind from the east rushed down the mountain with incredible fury: it broke the boughs from the trees, and tore the thatch from cottages at Mellerby and Gamelsby. But when I had left this elemental tumult about two miles, all was perfectly calm, and a little farther a gentle breeze sprung up from the west, while behind me the Helm Winds continued raging with unabated fury. Having heard uproars among mankind, and uproars among the elements, I prefer the latter, as having more sublimity.
No mountain that I know of, especially from the distance I view it, exhibits such a variety of tints as that of Crossfell. There is first the pure white when the mountain is smooth with snow; and when the white is passed away there are the various shades of green, and of light and of deep blue. Then from an absent sun, and the lowering gloom of dark clouds, comes the sable garb of these mountains, which has given them the name of The Black Fells.
From this range of mountains issues the Tyne; which, after passing Alston, celebrated for its leadmines, winds along Northumberland, contributing to the wealth of Newcastle, and the warmth of London, by bearing on its bosom the keels from the numerous collieries which enrich that neigh - bourhood, giving bread and comfort to many departments in society.
My thoughts having rambled from the summit of Crossfell, I seem inclined to pursue my way over its less elevated connexions; and the reader will perhaps accompany my descent from the heights of Stanemore, especially when he finds me in company with a female emigrant and her five children. They were going to Liverpool, and from thence intended sailing for New York. Two of her friends, having just taken their leave, sat down under a wall and looked after her. Her goods and her three youngest children were all in one cart; her eldest walked on foot. Her brother, who was about to return, held her in his arms: they kissed each other and walked on; they wept and were silent. They again embraced, but could not part. The sorrowing scene was too sacred for me to interfere. I kept at a respectful distance. They stopped and embraced again, and with much struggle they parted. I alighted from my horse, and took her hand under my arm. She trembled and she wept, and I did all I could to comfort her. When she was able to converse, she told me she had parted with a brother who had been a father to her; that she was going with her little ones to her husband, three hundred miles inland of New York; and that they meant to settle on Lake Champlain. I sketched a few lines for her to America. I walked with her till her sorrows rather abated; but she was sad, for when I took my leave she never lifted her eyes from the ground.
Hartside.

I Now seem inclined to go north of Crossfell, and to take a morning tour over Hartside. While we tread the earth, we can hardly be indifferent to the beauty and grandeur that appear on its surface, or even to the changes effected by the variety of seasons. Somewhat of the first has been introduced in these pages, and it may not be amiss to give an instance or two of the latter. When I came to the top of this part of the mountain( perhaps the highest carriage-road in England) the sun was not risen, but the pointed spangles of his rays, sparkling in all colours of the rainbow, announced his approach: anon, a pin-point of fire stood on the corner of a hill at no great distance. The next moment his broad orb was fully up, and apparently within a few stone-throws. I now beheld the county of Cumberland and part of Westmorland, a circumference of perhaps 150 miles, all swallowed up in an ocean of mist: not a smooth ocean, but rolling its immense waves from the base of where I stood, to the mountains of Galloway. Penrith Beacon, like a naked ship-mast, stood alone in the sea. The mountains of Patterdale and Scotland were covered with snow. - I have sometimes seen an interesting snow-scene, when the sun rising clear shone on snowy mountains with a pale light, the deep shadows from the hollows of the mountains finely contrasting with the pure whiteness of the snow. The sun now stood like a globe of fire on Crossfell; the mountains of Scotland and Patterdale catching his fiery beams, seemed like mountains in flames. The scene was fearfully sublime; but remembering the inhabitants were all safe beneath the fog, I enjoyed it.
I recollect once, when all the mountains were perfectly clear, that a similar fog lay on all our valleys; and that the fog was frozen; when the trees and the hedges were indescribably beautiful. Every plant and every tree, and all that sprung from the earth, was hung with fringes of the purest white. But for the cold, how delightful would it have been to have wandered through groves of virgin purity, or to have stood gazing on a solitary tree, magnified by the richness of the drapery with which it was clothed! This lovely scene continued eight days: but how fragile is beauty! a gentle breeze began to stir the woods, and all was gone in half an hour.
Kirkstone Snows.

Having seen a little of fogs and mists, and contemplated snows-scenes in the distance, I seem inclined to introduce the reader to a more intimate acquaintance with the regions of snow. Being at Ambleside, not long after a heavy load of snow had encumbered the mountains, and intending to cross Kirkstone, I was told it was impracticable; that no person had crossed it since the snow fell; that the lanes and hollows of the mountains were filled; and that if I was bent on home I must go by Threlkeld. I did not like the idea of fifteen additional miles to my day's ride, so I determined to attempt the passage pronounced impracticable; but not to advance farther than I could make good my retreat, if the passage were really impossible. I ascended the lane slowly, which was pretty well filled with snow, but did not stick, though frequently up to the girths: but when I had effected a passage through the lane, and was struggling with my difficulties through a hollow in the moun - tain, my horse stood still, and being nearly up to the neck, could advance no farther. I alighted, and treading the snow down from his sides, he turned round, and I clambered upon stones which appeared like the top of a broad wall, he following, for we appeared truly united; and thus we got clear of this difficulty: but others soon came upon us; drifts, higher than my horse, rose before us; I therefore scrambled up the side of the mountain where the wind had swept away the snow, and thus picked my path well as I was able, my horse following. When an opposing drift made the passage doubtful, I thrust my stick and my arm, to ascertain its depth, and discover whether the earth was sound beneath, for I sometimes heard the rumbling of unseen waters. One favourable circumstance was, that I had no wind to contend with; and again the summit of the pass of Kirkstone may be about half the height of sublime mountains which rose in succession on my right and left; so that I was surrounded by a magnificent snow-scene, with a due portion of the terrific to keep up their higher attentions. Thus slowly proceeding with all the prudence and caution I was master of,( though perhaps the reader will not give me much credit for either,) I perceived a man advancing as I descended. He was on foot; I hallooed to him: we soon got together; and two human being meeting in such a scene of desolation had something cheering in it. We conversed on our difficulties, and encouraging one another we parted. I soon afterwards arrived safe in the valley.
Shap Fells.

Having just come out of a quiet snow-scene, the reader, perhaps, may not be unwilling to enter upon a stormy one, provided he is not very long detained. I was going to Kendal. The road between Shap and Kendal is mountainous. A considerable fall of snow had taken place, and the wind blew vehemently: it was so strong that when I alighted to walk I could not stand. The sides of the mountain seemed to be in motion with the driving of the snow, which the wind was sweeping into the valleys. In some places torrents of snow were streaming over the rocks; the sun shone faintly through the motley atmosphere, which considerably magnified the mountains: but in the bottom of the valleys all seemed an invisible tumult. The howling of the winds, and the barking of the shepherds' dogs, labouring to collect the scattered flock, but distant or near equally unseen, gave a bewildering animation to one hardly knows what. There was a strange wildness in the clouds, which bordered on the terrific; and one of them exhibited a beautiful appearance that I had never before observed: it was a small cloud that appeared suspended on the top of a high mountain, and seemed enriched with all the colours of the rainbow; red, yellow, green, blue, were all distinctly seen in this light cloud, but nothing of the circle of Iris's bow. In a few minutes it began to enlarge, and the colours to diminish; and in a little time took the appearance of the rest of its aerial companions. As I descended into the valleys I expected shelter and something of tranquillity; but there it was that confusion drove over confusion. I was completely immersed in a most perplexing vortex of snow, and assailed in every direction: the particles of snow, flying from the furious winds, strove who should first enter my eyes, ears, mouth, button-holes, boot-tops,& c. If I put my hand into my pocket for warmth, it was rather provoking to find my pocket full of snow.
The reader will perhaps here allow me, by way of a little variety, to present him with a Night Scene; or, perhaps he will say, and with some degree of propriety, with no scene at all. Well; but it is allowed that contrast heightens effect: then there can hardly be a greater contrast than that of the shining white of snow and that of total darkness. The reader will be fearful that I am growing quite eccentric; but if a little eccentricity lead to a little utility, perhaps I may for once be forgiven. Night Scenes are sometimes interesting; but to be immured in total darkness has something so like privation in it, that one would think, under such circumstances, there is no room for description. On the other hand, I have sometimes thought that in every portion of our lives there is something interesting. Under the latter consideration I shall introduce the following Night Walk: - - On entering a thick and solitary wood the night was uncommonly dark; and though I was well accustomed to the way, I was soon out of my path, and found myself entangled in the bushes: when, partly to make an experiment, and partly to amuse myself with my forlorn situation, I formed the resolution to make my way through the wood( between half a mile and a mile) with my eyes closed. Accordingly I winked and went on, with my staff in my hand, enjoying my fancy, and met with no interruption, save once coming down on a knee, till I nearly got through the wood; when, lo! I suddenly heard the tread of a man's foot, which instantly occasioned a singular sensation, and threw my musing tranquillity into a kind of thrill, or even a chill. I instantly opened my eyes, and saw the man and I were passing one another. I spoke to him:-- and he replied;-- and I found by his accent he was an Irishman. I before mentioned I wanted to make an experiment; which was the ascertain the difference, if any, in perception between a very dark night, and having one's eyes fully closed. I now found the difference was most manifest. I clearly distinguished the trees around me, as by a faint moonlight, and had not the least difficulty the rest of my way home. Since the above I found it of advantage, in going from candlelight into a dark night, to shut my eyes for a few minutes.
Another powerful instance of the effects of darkness occurred nearly in the same place. I was making my way through the same wood in darkness and in silence, when I suddenly heard above my head a sound like a very mournful human voice. This threw an instant horror through my frame; which was, however, but of short continuance, for I instantly heard above my head the flapping of a prodigious number of wings. The fact was, at certain times of the year many thousand crows roost in this wood; and I believe the sound I heard was one of the crows on watch, giving the alarm; so I went on smiling at my fright. If I had not made the discovery, I should not have been well off with my imagination the rest of my way home.
The above temporary terror was from objects of sound. I could give instances of objects of sight equally appalling. Take the following as not the most striking, but the first that occurs:-- Travelling in a cloudy night, and no moon, along a shady lane, about a mile from my own house, I saw, as I thought, at a small distance, a pale coffin move slowly along the side of a hedge. I stopped, and it stopped; and then it proceeded forward, unattended and unsupported by any thing that I could see. After sacrificing long enough to fear, I collected all the courage that I could muster, and advanced slowly towards the strange sight; when it proved to be a poor horse, whose head and neck, and tail and legs, were black; but its body was white: and it was innocently seeking its food by the highway-side. I believe many of the objects of mysterious fear, if duly examined, would thus relax their terrors.
Visible appearance of supernatural agency has something of terror in it; for we are so far introduced to the world of spirits; and it is somewhat connected with religion: but it is a religious excrescence that ought to be removed.
To grow up under these unhappy impressions may be a serious affliction to many a sweet disposition and amiable mind. This harassing mental slavery ought to be got rid of; and I know no way more likely than for mothers, grandmothers, aunts, and those that have the care of children, to follow the example of a venerable matron, whose countenance was marked by a dignity and intelligence continued beyond eighty years of age. I lodged at her house and two of her grand - children playing at the door in the dark, came in with looks of great concern, and seriously announced they had seen a bogle! The grandmother, with due attention to so grave a representation, replied," No; the frost killed them all last winter." The decision was conclusive; and our pretty innocents, with satisfied countenances, went out again to renew their play in the dark.
Blencathra.

Having long solicited and obtained the company of the reader from mountain to mountain, and having lately left my province for the regions of cold and darkness, I now seem very willing to return to it again. I leave Crossfell behind me, with its numerous flocks basking in the afternoon sun, and cross a plain, twenty miles over, to the rugged Blencathra. I seek for no authorities; but it occurs to me while writing, that our ancestors, when they gave this magnificent mountain its name, might think the name appropriate for a mountain with cataracts. Of late times the name it has holden is Saddleback; but the idea and the sound are both humbled by the appellation.
Ardent energies are not always crowned with wise achievements. I was once spending a few days at the foot of Blencathra. A party of six of us, on a midsummer morning, set off at four o'clock. To two of these individuals the ascent of such a high and rugged mountain might have seemed impracticable. The lame and the blind, without extraordinary minds, would not have hazarded the attempt amid the rocky steeps of this mountain; but the company of genius and science was courted, and not withheld on the occasion: and the first that was seen standing on the summit of the mountain, was the lame leaning on his crutch and staff. To the blind I attempted a description of the fearful precipices beneath us; but it was the first thing I repented of that day, - - when I saw him fall on the ground with dizziness, and cling to the earth, and scream out, with the apprehension of tumbling down the rocks into the abyss below. Till then I thought the idea of giddiness must be received at the eye; certainly it was as vivid in the mind of our learned and accomplished companion, from what he heard, as if he had seen the terrors around him. But we now moderated our descriptions, and only talked of extent and the appearance of distant objects.
We broke our fasts when we arose in the morning; and we breakfasted on Blencathra. We then descended into the valley between it and Skiddaw; and the descent was less steep and less rugged than the ascent we had surmounted. Before we dined we began to ascend the second mountain: and though ascending Skiddaw here was a long, toilsome business; yet difficulty and danger, and alarm, were on the other side of the mountain. I think it is on every side much less magnificent than the sun-rising side of Blencathra: yet to the north it rises a noble pyramid from a plain of great extent; in the centre of which smokes the ancient city of Carlisle. On the summit of Skiddaw we spread our table-cloth; and we sat on the ground. Our appetites were not defective; neither did we leave fragments to carry forward. It would have required a well-stored basket to furnish six meals twice over for six men with our exertions. Ardent beings, with interesting objects before them, do not always compute accurately for the necessaries of life.
We now descended into the depth of the valley between these two celebrated mountains. We held a conference; and we should have enjoyed a meal together, but we had not wherewithal to furnish one: - - the barley-loaf and the bowl of milk would have been a welcome repast. Being in a situation where there was no food, it behoved us to consider in what direction it would be likeliest to obtain it. Some were for winding round the base of Blencathra: I proposed going directly over its summit. The company was equally divided in sentiment: so we parted without animosity.
Perhaps it would have been more to my credit not to have reported the result; but if the reader learn caution and profit by my folly, it is some consolation for my being obliged to acknowledge, that it turned out that I was the foolish leader of a foolish party; among whom, he that did the greatest wonders was he that reascended the mountain with his crutch and staff. Indeed, this was in fact ascending three mountains in one day: and from this extraordinary exertion he did not shrink. But having attained the summit of the mountain, he sunk to the ground. He trembled, and his speech failed him. The sun was set, and a cold wind rose from the north. He had perspired much through excessive exertion; and though perhaps he was once the most animated of us all in conversation, he could not now make answers to an enquiry. Our third companion now left us, and hurried down the mountain for help. With aching heart I hung over my poor friend. I sometimes lay down upon him to keep him warm; sometimes got him on my back and bore him where the descent was rugged; and sometimes dragged him down by the feet, where I met with a green slope. Perhaps anguish of mind, and the hope of saving life, aided my exertions; for by the time our other companion arrived with assistance, refreshment, and a horse, I believe I had got him a third part of the way down the mountain. Proper attention, refreshment, and rest, in a little while restored him.
I live about ten miles from Blencathra. It was on a perfectly still afternoon in the fore-part of summer, when I looked towards this magnificent mountain. The firmament was of a pale orange, and there appeared something dreadful going on in that direction: daggers of fire seemed shaken by unseen hands towards the horizon, and one almost imagined the sharp sound of encountering weapons. The sky became dark; and by and by, thunder announced the conflict of the elements. There are mighty chasms in Blencathra, down each of which, in ordinary seasons, tinkles a solitary stream, which has a plaintive effect. The bursting of the mountain thunder-storm converted these rivulets into tremendous torrents of stones, which roared down the mountain, filled up the old channel, and deluged the fields below with stones and gravel, many thousand cart-loads of which are still remaining on the once pleasant meadows. If I could have crept under a crag and beheld the pouring down of the heavens, and the roaring cataracts of shiver, I might have formed an idea of the descent of the deluge in the time of Noah.
Lowswater.

From the turbulence of Blencathra, the reader may perhaps enjoy a transition to the tranquillity of Keswick. We will suppose Keswick the centre, from which we are to make two or three excursions, beginning with Lowswater, which we enter from the west. Descending from an eminence, we beheld that beautiful lake, perhaps two miles long and more than half a mile broad. The water is bordered with little cultivated estates; the dwelling-houses and other conveniences in the centre, and green enclosures lying round, which produce an agreeable idea of happiness in the mind of a stranger, and might seem to make him covet the silent valley of rural life. But it may be feared that all here will not accord through the year with the smiling prospect of a summer's day. The lake will be ruffled, storms at times will thunder down the mountains, and the passions of the inhabitants of these farms will be agitated. At the farther end of the lake was a dark brown mountain of no mean altitude: near the foot of which we passed among very narrow lanes, that led up to different neat houses, sheltered with trees, through which their white fronts made a beautiful appearance.
Buttermere.

The still larger lake of Buttermere was now opened before us; many lofty mountains rose from its margin on each side, and near the outlet on an uneven surface grew some fine forests: some of them had been felled not long ago, but they had already recovered the scale of beauty. The length of the lake is perhaps four miles, its breadth one. We rode two miles on the south-west side of this lake to examine the water-fall of Scale Force: as we approached it, from appearance, my expectations were not very high as to its grandeur or beauty, but I was deceived. We entered an opening of perpendicular rocks six yards wide, and perhaps forty yards high. Our road was over pointed rocks, which, however, the frequent feet of strangers had somewhat blunted. From the rock-walks of this stupendous lane, which extended perhaps sixty yards, trees shot out and hung over our heads. I put off my under-coat and replaced it with my upper one, as I was soon immersed in a shower from the spray of the fall. We had got a line, intending to measure it, as I disputed the account I heard of its height. My companion winded round a hill, and with much intrepidity placed himself at the top, appearing to me at the bottom like a crow: he began to wind off, and we hallooed to one another; but we might as well have whispered; the tremendous bellowing of this vast surge suffered nothing to be heard but itself. We were quite baffled in our attempts to measure it; but from trees growing above the tops of trees thrice told, I was convinced that the accounts of its being fifty yards high, was no exaggeration. Now, a considerable body of water falling unbroken that height, with a gloomy wall of perpendicular rock on each hand, certainly ranks high among the sublime and terrific exhibitions of Nature. I stood a long time at the bottom of the cataract, contemplating the grandeur of the scene, and my own insignificance.
Melfell.

Being at Keswick again, when I rose in the morning the sky was clear, and the sunrise from my window was to me a new and singular scene. A ball of burning gold filled the space between two mountains: these verdant mountains were a frame to the globe of light; which frame was tinged with the splendour it enclosed: but the whole, though luminous, might be beheld without pain. In mountainous regions the variety of changes in the scenes, from the state of the atmosphere, are almost innumerable. I will leave the vale of Keswick for a few moments, to say, that looking lately around me one morning after sunrise, a dark cloud overspread the skies, and a sullen gloom seemed to cover the earth: all, but where, through a chink in the sombre canopy, the sun shone in full splendour on a conical mountain, and that mountain was Melfell; it seemed like a pyramid of brilliants in a frame of sable.
Skiddaw.

I Now return to Keswick, and belonging to a party. The sky was clear when we sallied forth: but a vapour was rising from Bassenthwaite Lake, which ascended Skiddaw, and rested on its summit. Before we arrived, it had travelled over the valley between them, and covered the crown of Blencathra: yet it did not long remain there, but, during our mountain-journey, travelled eastward and settled on Crossfell. The journeys of mists, of vapours, and of clouds, when far above our heads, are little attended to; but when they are moving beneath, or around us, they are peculiarly interesting. Few objects in Nature afford a greater or more pleasing variety than the phenomena of clouds; and the mountainous country we were now exploring, affords a wonderful variety of specimens. The manufacturing and march of clouds, their revolutions and varieties, have often been subjects to me of interesting observation: I have beheld with attention the fleeting forms of these shadowy inhabitants of the hills, from the light silver clouds of the morning, till the sun edged his curtains in the west with crimson and gold. I know not in Nature of any greater transformation in a little time, than what takes place among these light passengers of the sky
I remember spending one morning on an eminence( Warnelfell) in the centre of Cumberland. Over the spacious plain northward to Carlisle, and westward to Solway Firth, the sun rose on a sea of mist: as the sun ascended, the vapours divided and left the earth; the sky was of a clear blue, but by ten o'clock was scattered over, at equal distances, apparently by an immense fleet. The clouds uniformly took the appearance of large vessels: they were of a triangular form, and their colour was like that of ship-sails. A scene more magnificent of its kind I do not remember to have beheld. - - The colour of clouds depends on the state of the atmosphere. I remember once being where I could just discern Skiddaw and Blencathra, with two or three secondary mountains. I do not remember a day more gloomy. If the hue of these mountains was not as black as pitch, it certainly belonged to no other colour than black. In the front of the scene I am now describing, were three enormous clouds, which in colour and in height were not distinguishable from the secondary mountains; only they were in motion, which showed them to be clouds: but the scene altogether had something of a dismal magnificence, which it was interesting to contemplate in safety.
I will now return from clouds to the earth. To ascend such a mountain as Skiddaw on such a day, and in the society of interesting companions, was no common gratification; and it cannot be supposed but that I enjoyed it. I did enjoy it, but quietly: no enthusiastic eulogiums. Perhaps sublime, unalloyed enjoyment is a quiet thing. I do not say at this period I had made the high attainment. I saw those for whose safety I was interested ascending cheerfully on horseback with less apprehension than I felt myself. Riding up mountains was to me a new way of visiting them; and my courage does not lie in my head. So when we arrived near the summit I alighted. Riding on the top of a narrow mountain, covered with shiver, and steep on either side, was not quite in unison with what I felt; and I could not well leave my horse. Perhaps I was a fit companion for Skiddaw Old Woman; so I staid by her, and laid myself down. I long heard with attention the trampling of the horses of my friends along the stones, and I saw them encircle a little pyramid on the utmost point of the mountain. I looked in various directions, meditating on what I saw, and enjoyed myself as much as one left behind, and having the toothache, might be supposed to do. This circumstance I did not mention; for, with the pain I feel myself, I do not wish to assail the others. I looked into deep valleys; over inferior mountains; and saw one in a southern direction, proudly eminent above his brethren: but he that is not quite at ease may be excused description.
Latrig.

My friends now returned, and we began to descend. Coming upon a green slope, we sat down by the side of a spring, and made our mountain-meal in pastoral simplicity. Descending from aerial heights and aerial musings, what if we again settle down on substantials? Bread has called the stuff of life - - if the position be true, the interests of agriculture may be said to be connected with human existence. The first step to Skiddaw is Latrig, which is perhaps a third of its height. This third - rate mountain William Calvert has cultivated. It might not be prudent, generally, to follow such an example in mountainous districts; yet, what he has done, ought to operate as an encouragement not to sink under common agricultural difficulties. Perhaps he has led the plough along steeper heights than has hitherto been done in this island. I have been told that the uprises of the roofs of many houses are about eight inches in the yard; and, judging of the ploughed parts of Latrig from the ascent of many roads, which is known occasionally to be five or six inches, he must have ploughed grounds as steep as the roofs of houses. Yet the surface of his steep mountain was alternately whitened with lime, or white with ripe grain. Lime could not be brought on these heights but by a winding road up the back of the mountain, then over its summit, and finally sledged down its brow. The rays of the afternoon sun( which are the hottest) shooting direct on the breast of the mountain, have ripened its grain more early than any I have seen this year. On the summit of Latrig is a pretty level plain, where the corn is some weeks behind, but where I was surprised to see eleven stacks standing of last year's grain. Indeed Latrig is a singular specimen of what may be done by perseverance.
Keswick.

Belonging to a bridal party, I was again at Keswick, where we lodged; and next morning steered our course towards Borrowdale. On our right lay the level vale of Keswick, enlivened by Derwentwater, which once gave title to an earl. I should like to hear of its being again revived in the person of some virtuous loyal subject. Lord Derwentwater would have sound as well as Lord Ellenborough; yet Lord Chief Justice Law belonged more to Westmorland than Cumberland. I should have liked to have had him Lord Carhullan, the name of the abode of his ancestors. But we are in quest of more permanent objects than the perishable distinctions of men.
Soon after we left Keswick there arose on our right a vast range of mountain-rocks, or rocky mountains, stretching four or five miles without interruption. Sometimes they came forward majestically erect; sometimes they retired, and leaned to the east. Their grey fronts were often enlivened by green woods; and if it were not that any allusion to the works of man would lower the grandeur of Nature, we should talk of castles perched on high, entire or in ruins, their shattered fragments often scattered around their base.
We drew the rein at Lodore; and having heard of Watinlath, and that it was situate above the summits of these precipices, we began our ascent to the higher regions. The ascent was steep, and slippery with the heat of the sun; and some of the party failed in the attempt. The bride was the first that arrived in sight of Watinlath. It is a solitary village in a solitary valley, situate, I believe, three hundred yards above the valleys around; and the approach to it is so steep that it is difficult to conceive how the implements and materials for building could arrive there: yet houses there are, in number four, which may contain from twenty to thirty inhabitants; and we saw the plough going, and concluded there may also be carts: so that Watinlath may be considered an upper story of society.
A native of London or Bath, transplanted to Watinlath, might sicken for society. But this lonely valley is not destitute of life and animation. The barns and out-offices suggest a proportion of cattle; and I counted from one point sixty - three fields,( not indeed large ones,) and afterwards counted on to a hundred. The family we visited talked of having seven hundred sheep, and that there were above twelve hundred belonging to Watinlath. But its chief population consists in ants, which I believe are more numerous than the whole population of England; and they seemed well-fed ants too. We came to their London, round which they were travelling by thousands in various directions. I hope the reader will not be offended at my introducing such company: a man in pursuit of the productions of Nature should not overlook any of the inhabitants of the earth, whether men, lions, eagles, or ants.
At the village of Watinlath we met with hospitality: we were offered refreshment; white linen was spread on the table; and the delicacy of rum-butter was set before us, which is a favourite preparation on the addition to a family. I counted thirteen legs of mutton hanging over our heads; together with a well-stored bookshelf, from which I took down a volume, and was pleased to find that my friend Lindley Murray was read in Watinlath.
I was told that in a half mile walk I could see into Borrowdale. This was an excitement: I walked and I ran, and I saw what I wanted. But in my absence my friends had played me a trick. They were gone, and had represented me as a spy, and I do not know what: so I had my way to make again with the good woman of the house. which I did not find very difficult. I dare say we parted without thinking any thing bad of one another.
The valley of Watinlath is walled in, particularly to the west, by a chain of rocks two or three hundred yards high. These rocks sometimes lean forward, sometimes are perpendicular, and sometimes sloping to their summits. When thus inclining they are covered with a little soil, and consequently with a little verdure, and are pastured with sheep. But some of these naked rocks take the form of round towers, some of them of square battlements, and some of them are like no human buildings we have ever seen.
In this mountain-solitude all was silence and repose. The air was warm, the sun shone bright; and in this pastoral stillness we heard the cuckoo for the first time this season. Our guide was an acute mountain lass of twenty - one. She was born at Keswick, and had lived five years in Borrowdale. She told us, when she now went to Keswick, they shouted cuckoo; the people of Keswick joking their neighbours of Borrowdale with hedging in the cuckoo, but she flew over the fence.
The midst of this valley, and nearly its whole length, is a smooth level meadow. I paced its breadth, and found it to be ninety or a hundred yards wide. In one place a wall runs nearly across, with ten openings in it to receive the passing waters, which we saw from the wreck sometimes fill the valley. When the Lake of Watinlath overflows; when the rocks on high, visited by a mountain thunder-storm, send down their waters on the deluged vale; when they all rush together down the fearful Gulph of Lodore; then, who but would like to see the tremendous cataract in all its glory?
Who but would wish to hear the dreadful roar - - Watinlath's waters thundering down Lodore?
Leaving the level valley, its bordering stream shapes its descending course into a gloomy abyss, shaded with brushwood and with trees. It had now been a long drought, and I was desirous of accompanying the diminished stream down its fearful descent. I was told by our guide, and those that were with me, it was impossible. I persisted in urging the attempt, but was at length overpowered by the opposition. Our guide said we might go on the top and look down; but the path was very narrow. Left by the rest, I went cautiously onward with our guide, who soon saw I was afraid, and offered me assistance. I heard the water sounding beneath, but was fearful of looking down the throat of the growling monster, and shrunk from the idea of being devoured by a mountain-shark, whose wide open jaws stretched perhaps fifty or sixty yards high; so I timidly turned away, and crept quietly to the bottom of the hill by the way that I came.
Sometimes an inveterate obstinacy lurks under a simple appearance. I had not been permitted to descend the Waterfall of Lodore, so I was determined to make an effort to ascend it. Our guide conducted me to its base, and accompanied me till she said," You can go no farther. " Terrible rocks, perhaps eighty or a hundred yards high, rose on either hand. The cataract was bedded with a thousand fragments from their sides, several of them, perhaps, twenty tons weight - - all of them smoothed by the weight and rapidity of the falling torrent. Though it might be said to be arduous and perilous ascending among these sleeping gentry, yet this I effected to the summit of the fall. I did not, indeed, go by this gravel-walk all the way to Watinlath, for I had not time; but I descended again in safety, though it was the more difficult journey of the two. The reader may remember how fearful I was in looking down into this terrible abyss; but with looking down was coupled the idea of falling down, and I became almost dizzy. If we are dizzy in our elevations, there is considerable danger. We may be in greater difficulties below; but if we are relieved from the apprehension of falling, the danger will be less.
We now approached Borrowdale; but the entrance seemed barred by sublime impassable rocks, perhaps four or five hundred yards high; their summits finely curved or pointed, and their sides adorned with green woods and grey projections. These rocks, or mountains,( for these barriers of Borrowdale partake of the properties of both,) shoot quite across the valleys, and shewed us no opening for an entrance; and to drive our carriages over them was impossible. What shall we do! Borrowdale must be entered, for our wishes are there already. We drove up to them; and, lo! Nature had, in one place, been so kind to us and other travellers, that she had set the corner of one mountain behind and a little past another; so we slipped in between them, and one of the first things we saw was Bowderstone. I have seen men so enormous, that their exhibition was accompanied by other men, and their arrival was announced by handbills,& c. Bowderstone partakes of these attentions: - - a handsome cottage is built for the keeper, and handbills are distributed. Bowderstone has been not inaptly compared to the hull of a ship; and surely it is no small one. When we came alongside several people were on deck, and its keel was but little sunk below the surface; so that, resting on so narrow a base, it seemed in danger of toppling over. The launching of a first - rate man-of-war would be an inferior operation to the launching of Bowderstone from its native mountain; for all the men of Keswick - - nay, all the men of Cumberland - - could not have stopped it in its right place.
We now go on exploring these lovely and sublime solitudes. Fenced round with majestic mountains, how shall we escape from them? Nay, but we do not wish it: we long to linger, and wander from valley to valley, while the sun performs his journey over our heads. Rosthwaite, Sethwaite, Stonethwaite, and Grange! your undulating summits here ascend with pointed peaks, there decline like inverted rainbows; your features always varying, and always interesting.
On a level with the dwellings in Borrowdale are fields and meadows of sweet fertility. These fields and meadows are stretching to the borders of the mountains. The bases of these mountains are covered with wood, and sheep are feeding on their sloping sides and aspiring summits. The sun shone bright, yet clouds were in the sky; and where their deep shadows rested in the hollows of the mountains, it added a solemnity to the scene. Perhaps there are few situations in which the extremities of seasons are more conspicuous than in Borrowdale. The wintry tempest and the summer thunder-storm, with its loud tumult of echoes among the mountains, will here be in perfection. Then, when all these have subsided and are gone past, where shall we meet with more comfort and repose?
Being limited for time, we did not examine( I think it was) Stonethwaite, the approach to which is singularly striking. A beautiful cluster of hills standing one behind another, seems to fill the entrance, amongst which the imagination is left to make its way.
As we approached the Wad Mines, we left beauty behind us. We drove by the broad stony channel of a river; but water there was none. We travelled in our carriages as far as carriages had ever travelled. We alighted; and in our steep ascent we passed a fine grove of yews. On our arrival we looked into Wad Mines; but interest was exhausted by what we had this day seen, so we returned.
Wanthwaite Crags.

An inviting season, about midsummer 1821, drew forth my friend and me to a ramble among the mountains. We mounted our horses a little after sunrise, and followed the Keswick road past Threlkeld; then turned down the vale of St. John's, when Wanthwaite Crags soon roused our attention. Huge, sullen, and severe, they are finely contrasted with the soft scenes of the valley. Having much in prospect before us, we did not quit our horses; but the yawning caverns and hoary masses of Wanthwaite Crags seemed well worthy of being explored; they seemed like the citadels of the mountains.
We now approached the Castle Rock of St. John. It's dark grey walls, and its turrets waving with green shrubs, gave it a solemn appearance; and imagination and the idea of enchantment have rendered it famous. But as we drew near, it shrunk out of sight; and, when it re-appeared, it was metamorphosed into meanness.
Having rode above twenty miles, we sent back our horses at Wythburn, and betook ourselves to our feet on the mountains. We exchanged smooth roads, green fields, woods, steeps, and lovely lakes, for brown heath, rugged wastes, slippery hills, bogs, and peatmosses; and, to our comfort, as we rose higher and higher, the mountains rose higher and higher before us, till we beheld a company of mountains around us at once lofty and formidable: pre-eminent among which were two that seemed to face one another with an air of defiance, as disputing their right to some interesting vale; or, with allusion to a human assembly, each held up his hand as beckoning for obedience. These, we were told by two anglers at a solitary tarn, were Scawfell and Great Gable.
Descending on Borrowdale, we saw two men and a woman at a distance, and sought their society and counsel. They were sledging peats, with one horse, from the higher mountains, to a precipice down which a horse could not go. Here lay their reservoir of peats, and here again their hurdle is reloaded; which being done, a man appears before it, his shoe-heels shod with iron, which with sturdy tramp he drives against the ground. The man's shoulders being now opposed to the hurdle, the hurdle rushes on the man, the man arresting its overwhelming progress with all his might; and thus they go jostling one another all the way down the mountain without, however, any intention of a total overthrow; for, should that unhappily take place, the hurdle's contents would be distributed in hurry and confusion down the declivity. But arrived in the valley, it ends in an upset, for the man tumbles down the hurdle. Yet how uncertain are the ups and downs that we see around us! The hurdle gets again on the man's shoulders, and rides in triumph up the mountain to renew the conflict. The reader would excuse my thinking so much about getting peats down these precipices, if he had seen with what difficulty I got down myself. - - I am yet disposed to say a few words more. Agreeably to sound policy, before I left home I considered and counted on the ease of old shoes in a long walk: but I had not duly examined these interesting objects - - old shoes; for I this day found to my loss that the heels of those I had on were worn off, so that I could hardly go or stand in my descent into Borrowdale: - - therefore, as a well-wisher to these kind of undertakings, I would recommend the reader, before he commences a pedestrian journey among the mountains, to have his shoe-heels sparrow-billed.
We were now fairly got into the level fields of Borrowdale; and we turned round to look on the heights whence we had come, when our wonder was not diminished in contemplating the dexterity that must be possessed by the inhabitants of these valleys. I would have cheerfully stopped half an hour to see the descent of a cavalcade of peat-carriers: - - would it not have been like a cataract of men and peat-hurdles tumbling down the mountains?
We now turned our attention in various directions, and found the surrounding mountains of Stonethwaite the loftiest and most beautiful in Borrowdale: but beauty is seldom an attribute of mountains, yet it comes in for its fair share here. The stern Eagle Crag terminates the vale, on each side of which are lofty mountains, nobly wooded almost to their summits, shining with white rocks. The sky was clear; the sun shone bright, save on the steeps that rose on our left, where a vertical sun could not shine: hence the appearance of huge caverns was seen among the richest groves. In different places fine conical rocks projected from the mountains, and were richly covered with trees. These are called by the inhabitants" hay-stacks," and bear different names. We conversed with some of the inhabitants, and they seemed a serious, obliging, and intelligent people.
We now wound our way out of Borrowdale. Compared with the way we entered into it, the road was commodious, if a road could be said to be commodious where was no real road at all. In a drought the appearance of water is cheering; and we were refreshed with the sight of Sprinkling Tarn.
The Wastdale Mountains now began to rise before us: they were of a character entirely different from those we had left behind or any that I had seen. They seemed composed of solid rock; neither smooth, rugged, nor sprinkled with verdure: they appeared pure, unmixed, impenetrable sterility, inclining rather to a light than a dark hue. It was the heat of summer, and a hot day; but the summits of these original mountains appeared as if they were whitened by a hoar frost.
I had enjoyed our ascent: it had been without fear or difficulty. We had hitherto seen no human being, and were longing for a look into Wastdale, when we met with a man driving his ass, loaden with hardware and other goods. He was the merchant of these mountains and valleys. We inquired where we should see into Wastdale? He said," Just before you. " I bounded forward with joyful anticipation; when, lo! a turn in the mountain presented a tremendous abyss. We saw indeed, at a vast distance, level land and green fields; but to come at these the dreadful side of Great Gable must be descended. If I had been alone I should instantly have returned; I should have hardly dared to look into the lower regions: yet it was not so much from the apprehension of real danger, as by the fear of dizziness, that I was annoyed. But my companion abounded in the sort of courage in which I was deficient; so we began to descend; my friend on the side towards the precipice, and I towards the mountain, changing sides as we went down at every turn of our steep and stony road. The road, indeed, seemed to crawl down the mountain like ourselves; for Great Gable was too steep and too like a pillar to admit the road for any length of time in one direction. However, to keep up my courage, and show my companion that I was not an arrant coward on all occasions, I told him how I had followed a mad dog( that had made sad havock in our village) long after every body else had given up the chase, and killed it, poor creature! with my club.
When we are humbled, we hang down our heads: thus my eyes were directed to the ground. I indeed once glanced at what was below, and clung closer to my companion; and I then looked aloft and caught a glimpse of a canopy of rocks, perhaps a quarter of a mile above our heads. This added another terror to the stock already in my possession. To me these may be said to be tours of impressions; and here I was under the impression of terror. Here I might properly be classed among the creeping things of the earth; and here I might well have cried out, - - O for the head and the heels of a shepherd, or the airy agility of Borrowdale peat-carriers! However, at last we arrived safe in the valley, and looked back with something of self-complacency on the mountain from which we had descended. Though attended with difficulty, who would regret that once in his life he had come down Great Gable to explore the wonders of Wast Water?
When people go forth to see the world, they are sometimes in search of beauty. If beauty is the leading object of their search, they need not go to Wast Water. The prominent features round Wast Water are sternness and sterility. Unlike the mountains of Borrowdale, no climbing groves wave on the first stages of these mountains. The mountains of Wast Water are naked to their base: - - their sides and their summits are uniform: their summits shoot up into lofty points, and end in the form of pyramids. We have heard of the Pyramids of Egypt, built by the hand of man; but these are the Pyramids of the world, built by the architects of the universe.
When we entered again among the dwellings of men, we inquired for an inn, or for a place where we could get refreshment. We were told, that by walking five miles to the opposite end of the lake, we might be accommodated. This determined our route, and we continued our course on the borders of the lake. A range of lofty mountains lined our right, from which, and behind which, the sun alternately rose and set, as we pursued our evening journey. Our apprehensions at rest, we now contemplated the mountains with admiration, and the valley with tranquillity. A group of lofty mountains rose on our right; they formed a vast cove, from which the sun had withdrawn. The sun, indeed, takes an early leave of the northern sides of these mountains: to us they were already dark, though his journey in the sky was far from finished. I should have liked to wind along the base of these mountains; but to what they led I do not know: indeed it seemed like an entrance into the regions of night.
When we are engaged with interesting exertions, the feelings of weariness and want of refreshment are suspended: but when the day is done, and our exertions terminate, the transition is agreeable to refreshment and rest. These we met with in perfection at the little inn a mile below Wast Water. Though but on a small scale, we experienced the three gratifying qualities of a good inn:-- kind attention, comfortable refreshment, and a moderate charge.
We breakfasted in the morning between five and six o'clock, and renewed our labours. The sun last evening seemed drowsy like ourselves - - he sometimes winked behind a mountain: he had now risen with fresh vigour, and we with renovated strength; so that we each pursued our journey with the alacrity of the morning. As we retraced the road we had walked last evening, the mountains rose more magnificently before us. The names of some of them were, Kepple Crag, Green Crag, Kirkfell, Longmell, Bowfell, and Scaw Fell. We sometimes paused, and beheld four or five of these majestic mountains standing distinctly before us; and they have so stood unimpaired for four or five thousand years. But we cannot say so much for the celebrated mountain over the lake. The Screes seems going to decay: its foundation is in Wast Water; its surface and its soil are gone; torrents of rocks and of stones are sometimes rolling down its sides. The lake receives the roaring current, and boils with its fury. The boatmen keep aloof: - - the bottom of the lake is rising, and the mountain is diminishing. I only speak from information, for the mountain was at rest when we beheld it.
Having again paced the length of the lake, we were opposite the base of the mighty Scaw Fell, the highest of all the English mountains. The sight of its far-distant summit elevated my spirits, but depressed those of my companion: I am not sure that he was quite well. We crossed the feeder of the lake over one of the slenderest wooden bridges that ever accommodated human passengers: it shuddered like the ague. We sat down in a shady lane, and held our consultation, which ended in amicably parting for a few hours; he winding round the base, and, as ambition has no resting-place, I over the summit of Scaw Fell.
Scaw Fell has a broad base: it extends several miles on the side I ascended. I began to climb swifter than I had lately descended from other mountains; and I often looked and beheld my friend, till he was diminished to the size of his hat, and at last totally vanished. The day was delightful to my utmost wishes. As I ascended, the sea began to appear in the south-west, and as stately assemblage of mountains crowded the western hemisphere: there was a great variety in their forms, and one of the loftiest of them, if he had had a head, would have done for a Man Mountain, for he seemed to hold up both his hands.
I ascended to the last story of the mountain, which seemed superior to those I had before visited. I looked down on Langdale Pikes, the Man Mountain of Coniston, and others of my old acquaintances. I have ascended the easy and commodious side of Scaw Fell: I should have liked to explore the terrors of its tremendous precipices: but these fearful exhibitions would be better seen by me from below; my terrors are in precipices and perpendiculars. Looking from below, we only lose of terrific grandeur what is gained in tranquil, sublime admiration. There are many fearful and majestic forms amid these mountains yet unexplored by me: perhaps I may some time ascend to favourable points, and I treat myself with a sight of their solitary magnificence.
How delightful to look round and meditate on these serene regions - - the loftiest mountains our next neighbours, and the valleys their gardens and domains! How interesting to contrast these scenes with their circumstances, when they are involved with driving snows, with rolling mists, and with thunder-storms!
At the highest point of my elevation I was pleased to find that I was not out of the reach of all living things; - - a modest butterfly hovered round me, and shewed by her attentions she was not displeased with my visit. The reader may smile, but a butterfly is a respectable personage where there is no other. I sat down, and saw an aerial visitant approaching: a light silver cloud for a few moments rested itself above me, then went off and pursued its journey through the sky.
I seem here in the region of innocence. Innocent sheep are feeding far beneath me: they are all the living creatures I now behold. Their lambs are pacing or playing round their parents: their gaiety inspires me with gladness, and I am willing to record the cheerfulness of solitude.
Scaw Fell may be said to be the Goliath of our northern mountains, or the first of the British Alps. No doubt for many centuries after the creation it would remain wrapped up in primeval solitude; perhaps it might remain unvisited even by birds and beasts for a thousand years; and it still remains a labour for the shepherd, or a pilgrimage for taste, to ascend its lofty summit. Perhaps it was not til after two millenniums that the first human being trod the path I have done this morning. I muse till there seems a loneliness and silence around me that gives me the idea of the world before it was peopled.
I am alone on the mountains, and there is nothing but majesty and innocence around me. - - I am alone on the mountains. - - I have been alone in the midst of populous cities: - - I have walked their crowded streets when no one knew me, and no one cared for me; - - yet then I was not dejected; I was under the protection of society: and here I am not sad; here is nothing to tempt or injure me. I see the mighty works of Almighty Power rising around me, not a particle of which is directed to my hurt. Can I then repress adoration to the Maker Omnipotent? Can I withhold thanksgiving and gratitude from Him who brought messages of love and of mercy from the bosom of his Father?
It may be thought, that in climbing mountains I am building up my Babel to climb to Heaven: ah, no! far from it! I only look on mountains as the most stupendous specimens of Almighty Power that we see around us. The glories of Heaven I dare not attempt to describe - - I hardly dare anticipate: yet from the richness and glory of the visible creation; from what passed on Sinai between the Almighty and Moses; from the descent of Angels at the birth of Our Saviour; from his transfiguration on the Mount, and from the writings of John - - we may conclude that the courts of Heaven are filled with a holy splendour: but to the nature of that holy splendour I dare not presume to raise my feeble conceptions; and I am here willing to own, that if ever there is a moment when I am not afraid to die. it is when tears fill my eyes, and my spirit, clad in sackcloth, can say," Lord, dispose of me as thou seest meet: I am helpless before thee. "
There is a solemn silence on the summits of mountains that I have not found on the plains or in the valleys. The air is still, and the earth seems at rest: the sound of water is not heard. The voice of man, the notes of birds, and the noise of beasts, do not reach these serene regions. Social worship is enjoined, and it is a duty; but may I not here in deep silence worship Jehovah?
I now descended from the steeps of Scaw Fell; but my eyes sometimes reverted to its summit, as a spot where I had been gratified, and which I might never visit again. My pace was accelerated by the apprehension that my companion might be far before me, or that, through indisposition, he might be lingering behind: but I reflected, that he was among human habitations, and that my fears might be unfounded; so I trotted swiftly down the mountain till I got involved in peat-mosses. When I began to ascend Scaw Fell in the morning, I anticipated an expedition of pleasure; but the black bogs with which I am now surrounded are the reverse of pleasure-grounds. However, I could not find in my heart to be out of humour with them, when I contemplated a winter's day, when the snow was coming on, and cheerful cottagers conversing round the comforts of a peat-fire. Some may think these are objects beneath the attention of the reader; but to be well acquainted with the world, one should see tempests and hurricanes, as well as sunshine and tranquillity; one should be introduced to precipices and peat-mosses, as well as to drawing-rooms, parlours, and nurseries.
As I descended farther towards the valleys, the prospects became more dreary, and the way grew worse; till at last I was glad to see again( with rings about them) the things they call fields; and, in a lonely spot, rejoiced to meet with two solitary thorns. Plodding through such scenery, at length I beheld in prospect the luxury of a road. Comforts now began to unfold themselves, for I came to a house! and it had a front door and a back door; at both of which I knocked, but all was silence within. I turned away, but not without hope, for another house appeared over the valley, at which when I knocked, the mistress came to the door and led me in. Here I saw the delectable sight of large family sitting comfortably at their dinner, while a pie smoked munificently before them. I now made my inquiries, when the master of the family rose from the table and left his dinner to shew me the way.
At the foot of Hardknot I entered again on a road: and here I found my companion lying on the ground, where he had been ten minutes. He instantly rose; and we began climbing the mountain pleasantly together. In his circuit through the valleys he had met with his inn and his refreshment: my refreshment had been pure mountain air, and I looked for nothing more for ten or a dozen miles to come. We wound up and down Hardknot, and then accompanied the course of the Duddon through the long Valley of Sethwaite, whose characteristic is lonely sterility. For ten miles we met but one person, and he was from Somersetshire! What a contrast between these dreary regions and the county of Somerset! The person was a fine young man in search of work, and a stranger. The beggar has his rounds and his evening accommodations; but to meet a fellow-creature travelling, without a home and without a prospect, is affecting.
We now came to Wrynose, and began to descend the mountain; but we missed the three stones on Wrynose, where we were told a man might lie quietly in three counties at once. While I was a boy I frequently heard of the wild mountain-passes of Hardknot and Wrynose; and now that I have seen them, I believe strangers from level countries will pronounce them difficult and dreary, if not dangerous. I have also beheld their towering foreheads in distant prospect, and think that the fine curved outline of their summits nearly assimilates with those of Crinkle Fells.
Looking to the left at the foot of Wrynose I beheld a singular scene, - - a valley filled with rocks of different forms and of different magnitudes. My companion thought one of them looked like a slumbering lion, while I seemed to see the vast horn of some elephant-mountain. But our imaginations were in full operation with our pursuits. The appearance of these rocks was something like that of the tops of the Wast Water mountains. Indeed, fancy might suppose that lofty mountains, like those seen yesterday, had deposited their rocky crowns in this valley; or that Nature kept here her laboratory to furnish rocky summits for unfinished mountains. With whimsical ideas like these I left the Vale of Rocks, intending soon to come to it again. I called at the first respectable house I saw, to make some inquiries after my new acquaintances; but was mortified that the otherwise intelligent young woman, of whom I inquired, knew nothing of my Valley of Rocks, though she lived within half a mile of these wonders.
 For some days the Valley of Rocks kept occasional possession of my musings; so I returned to it with high anticipations of stores for description. I expected winding avenues of rocks that would scarcely admit my horse and me; I expected rocks rising like shattered towers, or reposing like prostrate mountains; I expected pillars and pinnacles, and projections and arches, and caverns and monsters, and nobody knows what. But when I entered, the rocks were all gone! However, I determined to look after them. I rode by a tarn, a farm-house, among fields of grain, of meadow and of pasture, but no rocks! I descended into a deep valley, and saw the perpendicular Pikes of Langdale towering above my head; a scene more solemn than any they have to shew at Rome. Still I was not satisfied at the flight of my runaway rocks: but as I turned my horse's head about to return I began to suspect that I might have been duped by the position of objects, or the endless fluctuations of light and shade; so I hastened back to the foot of Wrynose, to reinvestigate the scene that set me a-going. When I first looked on the Valley of Rocks, a long drought made them appear brown and barren; a clear sky had also lowered their apparent height; and now a dark lowering sky and two days' rain had greatly heightened their appearance, and given a tinge of green to their summits. Then the nearest of these rocky hills was the lowest; and they rose like benches one above another, till they terminated with Langdale Pikes. - - This was a lesson to me, that if I wanted to get a true idea of any object, I must examine it from different points of view. May not this hold in estimating human character? Let us not, then, too hastily determine against our fellow-creatures, till we have seen them in their various relations in society and in solitude. May it not be found in experience, that the same person is stern or mild, lofty or lowly, according to the circumstances with which he is surrounded? When I informed my companion that the Valley of Rocks had turned out an illusion, he could hardly believe me, for he was as strongly impressed with their first appearance as myself.
Drank tea at my friend William Wordsworth's, amid the roses and the beauties of Rydal Mount. We closed the long walk of this day at Ambleside. Ambleside is the little Jerusalem of our hilly country, where on a sloping hill-side human hands have raised a number of human habitations, as various in their appearance as the appearance and pursuits of their various occupiers. But Nature has done still more for Ambleside: her stately mountains crowd around her, and are woody, rocky, steep, and high. Her various approaches, or outlets, wind interestingly in various directions. In the compass of seven miles, more or less, they lead to as many lakes: - - Windermere, the largest lake in England; Esthwaite Water, Etterwater, Coniston, Rydal, Grassmere, and Ullswater. Towards the last in the following morning we set off. On ascending the summit of Kirkstone, we arrived in my native parish, about twenty miles long, and perhaps, on an average, two miles broad.
We descended from the steeps of Kirkstone down a winding lane of rugged mountains. We breakfasted at Patterdale, whose level meads are watered by the gold rill, collected as an offering to Ullswater from many mountains. We called at sweet Glenridding; and a spot more lovely is not in my remembrance. We wandered in a beautiful sunshine, amid the fragrance of flowers. If we went on the lawn, an amphitheatre of mountains rose around us: their pointed summits and finely curved outlines, seen through the thin gauze of a sunny atmosphere, had a delectable effect. If we walked north, Ullswater spread her waters on our right; while on our left, in savage wildness and hoary grandeur, rose Styborough Crag, muffled up in British oak. If we sat still, we were in a bower of roses. Our first parents began the world in the Garden of Eden; I shall end my excursions to the British Mountains in a Paradise of flowers.
The River Eden.

Having paid some attention to the stationary mountain, I will now for a while accompany the travelling river. I have often thought that there is something peculiarly interesting in the source and course of rivers, and that they may be compared to the beginning of life and the progress of time. The high origin of some rivers is among such inaccessible mountains, that we might almost as well attempt to trace the beginning of time as the beginnings of such streams. Others come trickling from the earth in such small and feeble rivulets, that they may be compared to the weakness of infants before they go alone; but, like the progress of man, they gain strength and distinction as they go on: villages spring up on their sides; even towns and cities prefer their society: and, like distinguished personages ere they enter eternity, rivers are often accompanied by all the glory of the earth before they descend into the ocean.
I think I have heard it observed, that they only are rivers that bear their names to the sea: then the reader will perhaps allow me to accompany the Eden( our nearest river) in its windings from the mountains of Yorkshire to the sea that divides Cumberland from Scotland. I have devoted these pages principally to mountains, and may lay down my pen after tracing the course of one river, and glancing at the objects on its borders. Perhaps then some other writer more competent may take up his pen, and trace the course and delineate the banks of British Rivers; and many may think it a more fruitful field for enjoyment than to wander on the tops of barren mountains.
Being at Grisdale, an island of cultivation among barren mountains, and perhaps the highest inhabited ground in Yorkshire, if not in England, I took an afternoon ramble with a relation; and being told that the Eden and the Ure, called at York the Ouse, issue from these mountains at no great distance, I was desirous of visiting their sources. The evening was mild and clear, the sun gilt with his beams the cottages on the elevations around us, while the deep shadows of the mountains filled the valleys beneath our feet. Into these we rapidly descended, and soon found ourselves on the awful borders of Hellbeck. Ah, Eden! little did I think that thou, that in laving the lovely scenes of Westmorland and Cumberland takest the name of that happy garden which held our first parents, shouldst here from thy terrors derive a name so dreadful! The channel of Hellbeck, though one might almost leap over it, is terrifying: perpendicular and overhanging rocks thirty feet high enclose the imprisoned waters. I peeped down with apprehension: I should have liked in a dry season to have peeped up from beneath, and have seen the blue heavens reduced to a ragged riband. I drank at its source; then stepped over into Yorkshire, and in ten minutes drank of the Ure: indeed, in little more than an hour I drank, near their source, of three celebrated British rivers, the Eden, the Ouse, and the Lune; thus depriving them of a portion of their waters, which they might otherwise have taken to the East, West, and North Seas.
The shades of night now fell upon us, and we reascended the mountains. Perhaps one of the most melancholy scenes in British landscape is a peatmoss under the shades of evening: but a companion in gloom lightens the dreariness. We lost ourselves in a labyrinth of peatmosses. The night was dark; the sides of the peat-pits were dark, and they communicated their colour to the water; so that all was black together. Perhaps these peat-pits might be filled with water four or five feet deep, where a plunge would have been most undesirable. Our care was exerted to the utmost; but as every earthly object is bounded, so was this doleful common, and our tribulation among the peatmosses was not of long continuance.
We now came to a wall, and climbed over it. A dim light sprang up, which we followed to a cottage, where two sisters gave us a dish of tea. On our relating our difficulties among the peatmosses, one of our female friends narrated what had befallen her five weeks before. Returning in the dark from a visit in Luns, she lost herself on the same dreary heights. She wandered about til she found herself at the place from which she first set off; but would not discover her situation to the friends she had visited. Setting off again, again she lost her way. She walked sorrowfully among the peatmosses till she fell, and her clothes were black with mud. She got up again, and wandered till she came a second time to the cottage she had left. She now made known her distress; and the good woman of the house took her lantern, her grandaughter, and her pet-lamb, and conducted her young friend safe over the moors into Grisdale.
We now rose to pursue our journey, and our young friend rose with her lantern, volunteered her services, and lighted us over many a little brook and many a little bridge, to the confines of Grisdale. Here a dispute arose who should now possess the lantern; she insisting that its services would still be useful; and we, that she was alone, had brooks and bridges to pass in the dark, and that if it had not been for her light we should not have escaped falling into the water. We obliged her to keep the lantern; but I verily believe, if I had been alone, female generosity would have been too many for me.
It would be interesting to accompany the Eden as he journeys along, collecting his tributary waters till he pours his accumulated wealth into the sea. The Venet, the Emont, the Lowther, the Croglin, the Pettrel, the Irthern, the Gelt, the Cadow, and many more winding streams, rush from their native mountains to attend his march, till he joins the ocean with his riches. The wealthy ocean repays this bounty when he sends his majestic clouds laden with the treasures of rain, which they scatter with equity on the plains and mountains: this is succeeded by the beauty and the riches of vegetation. The vast processes of the laboratories of water round the surface of this globe afford a subject of sublime meditation.
I first entertained the idea of exploring the beautiful banks of the Eden; but beauty having deserted its banks, I shall leave it for a time; yet the Forest of Mollerstang, down which it winds, having its attractions, I shall soon return to it again.
Towards the foot of Mollerstang Forest appear the ruins of Pendragon Castle, surrounded by a deep moat and fine terrace, and on a beautiful knoll, round which the Eden forms a semicircle. These ruins stand in an interesting valley, scattered with groves and surrounded with sloping mountains; amongst which Wildboar Fell is conspicuous. ( I went on its side, but had not time to attain its summit.) The roofs of Pendragon Castle, its towers, its turrets, and its battlements, are fallen in; over which the green turf is rising, and cattle are feeding within its walls half way to their summits. The earth is burying the windows, into the arch of one of which there was barely room to thrust my arm; so that annihilation may be said to be on its way to this ancient edifice, and future ages may only see a green hill where it said.
Pendragon Castle may be said to be a ruin of ruins, and the history of its first owner is as much in ruins as the mouldering Castle itself. When I went to visit it, I conceived it to have been the chief residence of Uther Pendragon; and that Uther Pendragon must have been a person of the first consequence, as I have somewhere seen that he was buried at Stonehenge. Sir Humphrey Davy told me there is a Pendragon Castle in Cornwall, and that there may be other Pendragon Castles in England; and that Uther Pendragon was said to be the father of King Arthur; but perhaps the father and son were as much known in their day in Westmorland as in any part of England, as we have in Westmorland Pendragon Castle and King Arthur's Round Table.
But I leave Pendragon Castle and enter Wharton Parks, the spacious domains of a more recent character. Here the first object that drew my attention was Lamised Castle, where into four of its apartments my mare and I entered. Afterwards, through a great extent of fine grazing ground, I approached Wharton Hall, which before its forfeiture was the residence of the Duke of Wharton, eminent for his talents and profligacy. Wharton Hall, though in decay as a noble residence, is highly respectable as a farm-house. I went through its numerous apartments, and then joined the venerable farmer in his parlour, where he was exercising his hospitality among his friends. He alluded affectionately to his landlord, the Earl of Lonsdale; and then told me how the Duke of Wharton hunted the buck on the Sabbath Day; and that one of our company's grandfather dragged the poor animal from a deep pool in Eden, and after its death brought it in triumph to Wharton Hall. Perhaps the pious Lord Wharton was of the same family, who left an annual distribution of the Holy Scriptures to youth of certain descriptions in the North.
The general character of the Eden is that of a temperate, tranquil stream, steering its course without turbulence. But at Stenkerith Bridge the stranger will find it sorely disturbed: if he ramble above the bridge, he will find boiling cauldrons of cold water; if he stray below, he will find the Eden so agitated and distressed, that his ears will be filled with the loud growlings of that angry element. Here the Eden rushes in different directions through the crevices of dark perpendicular rocks, eight or ten yards high, with a solemn and appalling sound, till its congregated waters pass under projecting rocks, whereon once the heel of my shoe rested on one side and the toe on another. But these points have been wantonly broken off, and are now half a yard asunder. It is a singular circumstance, but there are here two bridges, one over another: the first is the work of Nature, with all its original wildness; the other has been built by human industry for human accommodation.
I now accompanied my favourite stream through a more fruitful country; it divided the green fields of Kirkby Stephen, the first market-town that rises on its margin; it then pursues its course through a fertile soil, among the pleasant villages of Warcop, Sandford, and Ormside. Increasing in its strength and beauty, it now embraces Appleby, with its ancient towers, on a high and woody eminence. Here the virtuous Ann, Countess of Pembroke, exercised her hospitality, and in person her office( Appleby being the county-town) of high-sheriff of Westmorland.
The Eden now winds its meandering way by Crackenthorpe, Bolton, Temple Sowerby, Acornbank, Newbiggen Hall, to Eden Hall, the ancient seat of the Musgraves. Perhaps it takes the denomination of Eden Hall from its contiguous situation and the extent of its fine domains: indeed, Sir Philip Musgrave possesses a distinguished portion of wealth and beauty on the banks of the Eden.
The descent of the Eden is gentle from Eden Hall to Kirk Oswald, the residence of the Feather Stonehaughs. Round Kirk Oswald ancient oaks and ancient buildings, on eminences, suggest ancient distinction. I am unacquainted with the history, but the uneven surface, broad extent, and rich verdure of Kirk Oswald Parks, bordered by the Eden, lead to the conclusion that wealth and consequence might have here had their dwelling; and in future ages, on some of these knolls, wealth, consequence, and taste may build the castle, and overlook therefrom the valley and the Eden.
I now leave the beautiful vale of Kirk Oswald, and ascend the barren plain of Little Salkald; in doing which I have still an interesting object before me. I am going to look after the works of our forefathers, performed perhaps two thousand years ago. I see at a distance a pillar or an obelisk rising over the hedges before me. I hook my horse to a gate, and do not stop till I am in the area of Long Meg. If I had visited it when a youth, I might have thought the monsters I saw around me were under a spell, for I have often been told they could not be counted twice to a number; and what we are often told of when young, however improbable, sometimes becomes an object of belief. I counted the mighty stones I saw around me to seventy - five, but I did not repeat the operation. Disposing of them and their governess, for this strange assembly is still called' Long Meg and her daughters,' must have been a work of immense labour: and where such masses could be had, and, when found, how they could be conveyed, baffles conjecture. But here they are! some of them lurking half - overhead in the earth, others of them more exposed; and I amused myself with contrasting the time, when these mighty works were performed, with this afternoon, when a solitary individual surveys them alone. At the time those labours were going on, the congregated strength of Cumberland would be called forth; but Cumberland was perhaps then a name unknown. However, it was amusing to imagine the multitude collected, the strength and robust figures of those engaged, the resolution in their looks while they put their shoulders to the work, their manly voices while they animated one another, and the venerable Druid superintending and directing the whole. All these are vanished forever, but their works will remain as long as the Pyramids.
The sun had descended; and I now left these monuments of ancient strength. Our autumnal sunsets have been the most brilliant this season that can be remembered. Pen and ink cannot draw their effulgence; but I feel tempted to try to record what I have seen. The sun is retired behind Blencathra: - - that mighty mountain appears in dark majesty, rising amid a firmament of pale orange; his brows are encircled with a diadem of gold, or rather a glory of the softest gold shoots from his exalted forehead; and all the West partakes of the parting splendour. If I look back on Crossfell, one of the highest mountains in England, the sun is not set on its summit: his base and his bosom are dark, but his forehead is yet bright with the last smile of the sun, about to hide himself behind the western hills.
I now cross the Eden, and bend my course homeward. Night is now falling on the landscape, and my observation for the present must close with the closing day.
The River Eden. - - Nunnery.

When an active day's work is closed, we are willing to resign the world for rest, little anxious about renewing our toils as we enter the quiet precincts of sleep. But when the morning returns with its freshness and vigour, we look with some ardour to our unfinished engagements, and shake off the shackles of home as we proceed to our favourite pursuits.
I travelled with grateful anticipation towards Nunnery, once the seat of the Eglonbyes, over whose retired domains a venerable female presides. To the inspection of this once sacred place only one day in the week is allotted: it was not that favoured day when I arrived; but I mustered what courage I could, sent in my name, and a request to the owner that I, though a stranger, might be permitted to enter; and my request was readily complied with.
The name of Nunnery shows the nature of its ancient appropriation; and, truly, I could hardly conceive a place better calculated for female seclusion. Here are no intrusions of art rising around us; our paths, wherever we wander, are through the wild solitudes of Nature; and these solitudes are heightened, as will appear, by alternate turbulence and tranquillity. This at one time might be the varying picture of its female inhabitants: a transient turbulence of passion might at one time agitate their bosoms, which would be succeeded by a solemn tranquillity, all unperceived by the rest of mankind: and now, if the wild uproar of our species disturb nations, Nunnery hears not and sees not the turmoil; its turbulence and its tranquillity are all in its own bosom: - - and all this looks on a stream of delight - - the beautiful Eden. So, in former ages, its solitary inmates might look in hope from their solitude to the joys of Paradise.
Of the establishments and occupations of the nuns, I do not feel inclined to say much. I do not blame sincere piety, under whatever garb, if it injure not its neighbour, though I cannot join its ordinances. Education often gives a turn to our devotions. Our first duty is our duty to God; it would seem in the order of nuns to comprise all duties: yet, in journeying towards Heaven, I should think male and female pilgrims might strengthen one another's steps. I shall here leave the nuns, and now look at Nunnery; and own I enjoy its solitudes, though alone, but should enjoy them still more with a companion.
Looking over the surface of the country, and passing by these scenes, the stranger contemplates no hidden wonders at Nunnery; but on entering the Long Walk he sees a vast range of rocks, extending perhaps a mile, and these rocks, covered with a variety of thriving trees, constitute a delightful umbrage gently descending to the Eden. Yet the secrets of these lofty rocks are hidden form the eye: indeed, while wandering in these solemn groves, our minds are impressed as if something was mysteriously concealed. At times on our left a subterraneous grumbling is heard, which, however, is soon again hushed into silence: then, again, castellated and cathedral rocks have perhaps slept within their curtain of wood for a thousand years. To arouse and introduce them into public view, would give a new interest to these scenes. I should not covet to hear the axe in these solitudes of Nunnery; but if the strokes could be applied in silence and unseen, I should not regret the fall of trees, that would discover towers, castles, and abbeys, built by the hand of Nature in these majestic solitudes. In truth, they are but just seen glimmering through the thick wood; and if sparingly introduced, and with a judicious hand, what a noble effect would be given to what remains in obscurity!
This range of walk and of wood terminates at the Eden. Barons' Wood rises on its opposite shore, and lofty rocks front the river with hoary magnificence. The trees, the shrubs, the mosses, and the wild plants of Nature, live here uninterrupted and unseen: even the solitary heron can here enter undisturbed into society with his kind. I saw several of these birds perched on the white stones of this peaceful river, and regretted that they flew from me on my approach. Birds, when they behold man, fly from him as an enemy; but not all of them, and at all times. Wanting to form a bulwark by the side of our river, I plunged in with my workmen; and we wrought several days. We dined on warm pies in our wet clothes, when a little bird began to accompany our meals. I desired that it might not be disturbed. It picked the crumbs around us, and perched on my shoulders and knees. I had finished my dinner one day before the rest, and laying back my head, it perched on my lips: - - I laughed; and whether it was afraid or offended, it flew away.
To return to Nunnery, whose greatest wonders are contained in a chink, a creek, or crevice of the earth; that crevice imprisoning the thundering Croglin. Mankind are in general disposed to sail with the stream; but ease and enthusiasm move in different directions. Without a portion of the latter it would be as well not to encounter the Croglin; for, as far as we could see, the stream seemed now rushing towards us, as if it would overwhelm us. However, we are obliged to those who have lived before us, for some kind hand has furnished a path from which we may survey its turbulence in safety and in peace. The prison-walls of Croglin also abound with interesting objects. Here are recesses in the rock, on which the sun never shines; there the rock projects over the Croglin; and from its projection grows the lofty oak, which, seen from beneath, seems growing in the sky. Other oaks are seen by our side growing out of stone, their roots for several yards bending like the folds of serpents. It surprises us to think of trees drawing their sustenance from stone; but with the secret processes of Nature we are often unacquainted.
The dark Croglin foams and thunders down a narrow avenue of stupendous rocks, richly festooned with branches of oak, and filled with life and motion. Four cataracts display their white foam and their fury in its dark passage. These waterfalls in magnitude may contain a weight of water somewhere between that of the Falls of Niagara and that descending from the spout of a tea-kettle; but with their accompanying rocks and woods, they would make a far more interesting picture than either the one or the other.
Perhaps the winding walls of this imprisoned stream may be thirty or forty feet high, rugged and ragged, and weather-stained in perfection; and sometimes so nearly meeting one another, that the proprietors of the different banks might almost shake hands over the abyss below. As we pass along, birds are singing over head, or hopping from tree to tree; while the Croglin is tumbling, grumbling, and rumbling below for about half a mile, in animated and continued confusion. I have talked of sailing with the stream, which conveys the idea of a quiet passage without opposition or danger; but I should not like to ride down the rugged channel of the Croglin, filled with the wild torrents of neighbouring mountains, for it would be soon seen that my little bark and I would make more haste than good speed: and yet I should not grudge to ride twenty miles to see the burst of a thunderstorm on the Black Fells, rushing into the Croglin: then rage, and fury, and madness, would be words wanted in the description. On leaving Nunnery I may say that I have met with what is hardly ever seen, - - sublimity condensed, and magnificence in miniature.
I retired musing on the attractions of the Eden; and said to myself as I rode along, How many seats of human happiness decorate this distinguished stream! Taste and fortune settle down in its neighbourhood, and have many means of contentment in their power. However, I withdrew for the present from its borders, for steep ascending woods on either bank so inclose its course that it would here be difficult to accompany the Eden by land. I now came to Armathwaite, which village the Eden divides. The Milburns are owners of its Castle, whose foundations are in the bed of the river, while the waters wash its side. On the opposite bank is a seat of the De Whelpdales, whose walks command the solitudes of the woods and the beauties of the bay.
I now wound my way through a less fruitful country, never deviating far from the course of my favourite river till I halted on its banks at Corby Castle, a seat of the Howards, a distinguished family in Cumberland. The Castle has been built by the present owner, and does credit to his judgment. I had visited the walks of Corby when a boy, and found them peopled with fabulous gentry whom I beheld with astonishment and awe. But Polypheme and his companions are now gone, I hope never to return; and if any thing of awe now impresses the mind while traversing the walks of Corby, it is the majesty of Nature. A majestic swell, crowned with noble oak, rises in the park; while a swift descent to the river, whose steep banks are clothed with luxuriant woods, affords a rich variety to the taste of the stranger. Walks undulate under the shade of forests by the side of smooth waters. Surely this is the region and reign of tranquillity!
On the lower margin of the Eden stands Wetherall Abbey, once the residence, no doubt, of a religious order: contiguous to which, and difficult of access, is Wetherall Safeguard, where chambers hewn in the rock were places of defence from lawless invaders, or they were places of confinement for delinquents from Wetherall Abbey.
The course of the Eden increases in richness of soil by Warwick, Scotby, Botcherby, Rickerby, to the ancient city of Carlisle. I have just mentioned a few villages whose names end with by: in the course of the Eden, within ten miles of its sides, I believe one might find fifty towns and villages whose names have that ending, and several of whose derivations would be rather amusing.
Winding through level meadows with a smooth and silent course, the Eden seems to stay at Carlisle as the metropolis of its dominions. At Stenkerith, from the points of projecting rocks, I stood with a foot on either side of the river, while the watery element growled beneath me. The shelving rocks at Carlisle are no more; but the Eden has its bridge a quarter of a mile long, with nine or ten arches, which, in a flood, are not too many to receive its increased waters.
I visited Carlisle, but lodged with near connections at Stanwix, the most commanding village for prospect in the neighbourhood. I rose early, and beheld the Eden beautifully winding beneath me through fields of the richest verdure. The morning sun shone full on the ancient city of Carlisle: its elegant bridges, its massy Castle, its venerable Cathedral, its stately Court Houses, rose prominent in the scene: crowds of lower buildings filled up the intervening spaces. An extensive prospect for more than twenty miles, bounded by mountains, lay before me; and I saw objects that suggested the ideas of city and of rural life.
We left this animated scene for an excursion into the Barony of Gilsland and on the borders of the Irthing, a stream that falls into the Eden. I should have liked a ramble on the borders of Gelt, but that was left to a future time. We saw places of distinction on the right and on the left. We passed Brampton, and alighted, and were entertained at Temon. Our intelligent hostess refreshed us with her kindness, and amused us with anecdotes of her country; while her daughters seemed to converse with their modest countenances, and her son Nicholas mounted his horse and rode with us as a guide and companion.
Gilsland Spaw was our first object. At the base of a high perpendicular rock a gush of light clear water falls into a cistern. I tasted it, but it was not to my taste, so I left it, and meeting with Major Mouncey, the owner, congratulated him on being the proprietor of such a vast store of medicine, Gilsland Wells, as it is familiarly called, is a spaw of great resort, and has good accommodations. Nature has furnished this celebrated spring and surrounded it with rocks, and Art has reared her plantations and conducted her walks, from which and in which the invalid may become again acquainted with health.
I have been often told of Meg of Mump's Hall, and heard much of her doings: I now saw where she resided. Were I inclined to weave the tale of horror and of woe, I have the materials, yet shall not use them; but certainly it was to her credit what I now heard of her, that she entertained and lodged the judges, when they used to ride on horseback from Newcastle to Carlisle. The reader may wish to know something of the end of Poor Meg: our kind hostess told us she was informed by two women who lived with her till the last, that after her death, she was never more seen! yet strange appearances took place. But it is not to be wondered at, that imagination and superstition would both of them be at work on the demise of such a noted personage as Meg of Mump's Hall.
The matron at Temon was born at and married from Triermain. From that circumstance, and its antiquity, I was desirous of visiting it. But its apartments are gone, and its towers are fallen and removed: only one of its masses remains; perhaps the materials of the rest appear again in cottages and farm-houses. For their fronts, I believe, the Roman or Pict Wall has also been pillaged. We turned to the left, and were on its line for some miles. We saw, but did not narrowly inspect, Burdoswald, though one of the most distinguished of the eighteen stations on this immense fortification, which extended sixty - eight miles, from the East to the West Sea, dividing England from Scotland, and was garrisoned by ten thousand men. The Scotch drovers could not then bring up their black cattle to the English fairs, nor the English drive their mail-coaches to the capital of Scotland.
The Roman or Severus' Wall did not run in a level direction: I was shown in two places where it ascended the points of mountains. It was ten or twelve feet high, and its fronts were built of fine square stones, filled up between with smaller, promiscuously thrown in, and cemented together with a mortar hard and imperishable. Though it has been exposed to the wear and tear of time for sixteen hundred years, yet it is as hard to break as the stones themselves. Near Hare Hill I found a few yards of this vast work pretty entire: it now figures in a garden-wall. I there obtained a pretty massy fragment; and no doubt I was as intent in bearing away the precious relic as the Roman builders were in carrying the stones and mortar to Severus' Wall. When we could find no traces of this great work of human industry, we turned our attention to other objects. We beheld on our right the dreary wastes of Bewcastle and Spade Adam; also Cassonbury Crags, rising in the west. In former ages the mountain rovers and banditti of the plains fled to these fastnesses. I should like to have visited them, though surrounded by their quagmires. From the Roman Wall, at the distance of thirty or forty miles, I beheld Blencathra, Skiddaw, and Helvellyn: I beheld, and was glad to see my neighbouring mountains!
It was not uninteresting to contemplate that we were treading the earth that was once trod by Roman emperors; that we were now tracing the course of Hadrian's Rampart and Severus' Wall. But, like the perishable works of man, they are now almost obliterated; they are passed away, and scarce a trace remains to tell of their ancient magnitude. How feeble also is tradition! Few now, either in England or Scotland, have heard of Hadrian's Dyke or the Wall of Severus. All this to the antiquary may be mortifying; but it is pleasing to humanity to contemplate, that where on either side of these defences dwelt enemies, now that they are removed, society is softened down to relatives, neighbours, and friends.
We now descended into the vale of Lannercost, fertile in soil, luxuriant in verdure, and watered by the Irthing. We entered the spacious grave-yard of its religious edifice, and surveyed the numerous tomb-stones; while Nicholas applied at the Parsonage for the keys that introduced us to Lannercost Priory. Here Art in past ages began to contend with Nature, and finally triumphed in her stately Abbey. But Nature has now renewed the contest, and is scaling the walls of her foe with troops of ivy and of mountain ashes: and while the lofty windows and noble arches are decorated with the dark-green leaves of the former, the stately pillars and columns are ornamented with festoons of briers and of nightshade; so that Nature will eventually prevail.
From this venerable ruin we ascended to Naworth Castle. I had seen its stately towers from above and beneath rising over its woods, but conceived little of its extent or its strength. We entered its outer and inner gates, and explored its apartments; but they were under repair. The British kings in the Great Hall were taken down and deposited in Lord William's bed-chamber: his bed was going to decay, and so was his hat, but I put it on. The kings of Israel and Judea looked dim from the ceiling of the chapel: but there was one animated figure in this ancient castle. At the head of the staircase, in complete armour, stood Lord William Howard. He appeared in the prime of life, and, looking through the bars of his helmet, he seemed to me to have a penetrating, resolute, yet rather an agreeable countenance.
From the part Lord William Howard acted among his turbulent neighbours, I had thought his castle stood too low; but I found all but the approach surrounded by the deepest, steepest, and narrowest dell I remember to have seen. At the bottom of this dell runs a stream of water, and its whole width from top to bottom is crowded with wood; so that his enemies would have the greatest difficulty in getting at him when their bosoms burned with envy, hatred, indignation, and revenge. All is peace now round Naworth Castle; yet it was from these towers that Lord William Howard awed these wild regions, and reduced to something of order the last parts of England that remained uncivilized. His measures were severe, not to say cruel; but by such measures a lawless spirit was subdued to obedience. Yet to that end I cannot but prefer the labours of Bernard Gilpin: he, too, in his day might be said to be' The Great Man of the North;' but by the spirit of Christianity he subdued the turbulent passions of his fellow-creatures.
We did not descend into the gloomy dungeons of Naworth Castle, once peopled with captives and with felons: but if we remember the time, and amongst what a fierce people this castle was built, we may believe that indignation and revenge were around, and bitter bewailings were beneath the dwelling of Lord William Howard. If we are inclined to entertain ideas of horror for a moment, let us suppose Lord William Howard with his torches and armed attendants going down into his damp cells among his chained prisoners, perhaps to order executions. There we should see Man in the plenitude of his power looking with stern and unpitying authority on his fellow-creatures, while they, in their turn, scowled with agony and indignation on his mandates. But let us not dwell here: let us look on another Howard, travelling through Europe from dungeon to dungeon as an angel of mercy, soothing the afflictions of prisoners, and labouring for their comfort. Next to royalty, the Howards take precedence of all the families of England. This is the first of all the Howards, and he has left successors. I am acquainted with some of the moral daughters of Howard, who have repeated these visits to prisons, and begun their reformation. Surely these labours of love with human depravity are emanations of Divine goodness flowing through channels of virtue. May the glory and the praise revert to their Divine origin!
I now approached Irthington, built on the banks of the Irthing; which, like a faithful branch of a family, is hurrying to the Eden. Exploring the course of rivers, we meet with specimens of human society unknown to the summits of mountains. It has been a sentiment that has remained unchangeable among mankind, that age ought to be reverenced. I approached the house of Robert Bowman with something more than respect. I found him in bed, and told him I had tidings from his son, whom he had not heard of for a considerable time; and he was pleased at the information I brought. Finding him cheerful, open, and intelligent at one hundred and sixteen years of age, I enquired of him, what thing he could think of that happened first? Hesitating with his answer, I asked him, if he remembered his play-fellows when a boy? He said, he remembered them well, but could not tell me their names; intimating that they used to slide on ice and seek bird-nests. I enquired of him, whether people seemed happier when he was young, or now? He replied, learning had made them more crafty, and there were more disturbances now; but he remembered the two rebellions. Talking with one whose memory could go so far back, was like looking into the ancient records of society. On being asked if he remembered any thing of an early attachment? he said, he married her he liked, and married but once. It appeared that he had had six sons, and that they are all alive.
I now asked him, if he had ever learned to read and write? He said, he had been a hard-working man, and had little learning. I told him, if he could hold a pen, I should like to have his name written by his own hand. He said, his right hand had been disabled, but he could hold his pen in his left. I then said, I had the name of George the Third in my pocket, written by his own hand; and that if he would write, his name should stand on paper next the king. At this he laughed heartily, rose in his bed, took the pen in his left hand, and, with the assistance of my nephew Thomas Brockbank, wrote his name. The whole family was merry on the occasion: his daughter-in-law called out," Mind you do not sign away your land." I hardly remember any thing more pleasant than to see an old man of one hundred and sixteen laugh with the cheerfulness of two - and-twenty. When this process was over, his family told me he used to be on the stacks after he was one hundred years of age; that he wrought in the harvest-field after he was one hundred and seven; and I was further informed, that even at a more advanced period he used to attend the market at Brampton to make purchases for the family. On my taking leave of him we shook hands, and he wished me to call and see him if ever I came that way again. He said, that he could not now be expected to live long, but that he was content. Visits to Robert Bowman ought not to centre in idle curiosity: his sobriety and industry are a moral lesson in humble life, shewing how health may be preserved and comfort obtained; while his peaceful allusion to his latter end is a proof that death is not a stranger to his thoughts.
A few weeks after my return I called to see my old neighbour Mary Noble, of Penrith, one hundred and six years of age. Her hearing has failed, but it is the only faculty that is much impaired. She lives with judicious people; and I wished them to inform her that I had been to see Robert Bowman, at one hundred and sixteen, and that I should like to have seen them together. It would have been interesting to be present at an interview between these ancient people: one would have liked to see how they looked at one another, especially if they remembered each other a century ago: even their countenances might have been a little re-animated to think that they were the only survivors of all the people they had ever seen. Mary Noble was spinning when I called to see her, and she gave to her wheel an easy, agreeable, and not a loitering motion. She spins her thread of superior fineness and quality: she had just finished a web for the Countess of Lonsdale, and it would be wrought into ornamental table-linen. I enquired at what age she might be supposed to learn to spin? and was answered, she had been spinning between ninety and one hundred years: yet the thread of life spins on. Her sight is good. On Sabbath Day last she was sitting in her chair: a pin was lying on the floor, and she took it up. Two years ago she was in company with a party of females: one of them was hemming a cap border: her small needle, with its small eye, wanted threading: her young friends were unsuccessful in the attempt; she ridiculed their want of dexterity, and taking the needle and the thread, threaded it without difficulty, and without spectacles, at one hundred and four. On my taking leave she rose to shake hands with me, and grasping my hand so cordially, I took hers into my arm; so we walked gently together back and forward, arm in arm, over the floor.
The reader will excuse this digression to Mary Noble, for the sake of presenting an ancient Cumberland couple, whose lives have been long and useful, and whose old age is more comfortable than that of most of their fellow-creatures. Mary was the mother of three children, whom, with her husband, she has long survived; but instead of sitting disconsolate in her widowhood, she is rapidly extending her acquaintance in her second century: her labours are in increasing request, and it may be some, even several years, before Nature says to Mary," It is time to wind up."
Night brought us to Stanwix, and I renewed my observations with the morning. Perhaps Stanwix was the finest station on all the Roman Wall; but whether Severus' soldiers had taste for the beauties of Nature, I cannot say: however, the Eden here, as a river, is rarely excelled, and its verdant borders are unmarred by Art. But in a flood it becomes an ocean; beautiful groves appear waving over the vast expanse of waters, and it is then a sublime scene. For fifty or sixty miles the Eden flows on, gathering additional strength: Crossfell, Skiddaw, and Helvellyn, with many of the eminent mountains of Westmorland and Cumberland, furnish their portion of supplies. These, when the heavens have been pouring down upon us, form a vast body of waters. From Stanwix, in a flood, Carlisle seems like a city rising from the sea, only the sea is above the bridge. The Castle, Court Houses,& c. and various plantations, seem like woody islands rising from the surface of the ocean.
This mighty accumulation flows into the sea at Rockcliff; but this additional acquisition makes little difference with the ocean. This leads to the reflection, that Time makes little difference with Eternity.
The reader will now have seen how I have been interested with the Eden. The Eden is but one river in our island: - - this leads us to think on the progress of the great rivers of the world. However, rivers are but a small part of the globe, and this globe is but a small part of the universe. This brings us to ruminate on the universe as a mighty whole, and on man as a favoured part. Man is certainly superior to all the beings that tread the earth, and has wrought the greatest wonders on its surface: but the views of enlightened man are not bounded to this world; he looks for a more happy and eternal existence. The human mind, no doubt, possesses the greatest variety of all beings below; but what wisdom, power, and goodness, must be possessed by the Divine Mind that formed and supports the whole! The human mind is a favoured part: then, humility, gratitude, love, fear, and adoration become us who are permitted to approach the Almighty with our prayers and our praise.
I now lay down my pen, and the hour is on its way when I shall lay down my life. When a helpless infant on the lap of my parent, that period was before me, and the progress of each returning day has shortened the distance. Life ought to be a preparation for that period; but I feel doubtful whether I am more prepared than in infant innocence. - - I have accompanied the progress of the Eden from its source to the sea. I have sometimes seen it shining with the reflection of sunbeams, and sometimes seen it scowling under the gloom of hanging tempests; I have seen it fretful, turbulent, and tranquil; and I have seen the ocean send out its waves to meet it, when, mingling their waters together, they returned as one to the great deep. I have seen man, like the Eden, fretful, turbulent, and tranquil; and I have seen man, when his course was nearly run, under dismay: - - then well will it be for him if the current of Divine bounty flows to his relief; a prospect will then open before him far beyond any of these scenes we have been contemplating.
Gilsland Waters.

I Am here inclined to give testimony to the beneficial effects of the waters of Gilsland. Few have enjoyed a more uninterrupted state of good health, till the early part of this year, 1823, when my stomach became disordered. I loathed my usual food, lost strength, and looked ill. I was advised, and even pressed by my friends, to go to Gilsland. I took their advice, went, and became a copious water-drinker. My relish for food returned, my stomach recovered its tone, and my health has been for several months confirmed. Leisure is sometimes the parent of poetry, and it may not be unwelcome to some of my readers if I record in verse my gratitude to Gilsland.
In Irthing's solitary dell There is a cool and limpid well, From lofty rocks for ever flowing, - - Rocks, where the waving pines are growing. No idler of the summer's day, From home and friends I took my way, To see this beauteous spring, and know If healing in its waters flow. Fresh from its source the stream I tried Time after time, till satisfied; For while I drank the waters clear, More pleasant, Gilsland, grew thy cheer! And lighter seemed my step each morn, As winding through thy fields of corn.
Then day by day how it would please To see, with kindness and with ease, A train from many a distant land At Nature's healing fountain stand! The sickly youth with aged dame, The sire with drooping beauty came; The gushing spring is free to all That for its bounteous waters call: And then so plenteous! one may think All England's invalids might drink. We come, and drink, and fill, and pass The full, refreshing, courteous glass; Then climb the hill, or to and fro Perambulate the scenes below. Strangers unite in social talk, And slowly trace the winding walk: Returning health comes gliding by, And looks aside with playful eye.
When morning redness streaks the skies, Ambitious of the spring, I rise To drink the foremost, and be gone, While Nature looks in silence on. Oh could my heart but overflow, Like this reviving stream below, With gratitude to Him above, Who cheers us thus with works of love!
The sun illumed the world below: I left the shady banks of Spaw; Over sunny heath I took my way, And hills where Roman legions lay: Glenwhelt and Triermain I saw, And Thirlwall Castle, standing low, Burdoswald and Caervoran view, And stormy heights of proud Wardrew: There relics, altars, idols sought, And home the precious lumber brought; Wrapped close with hose and linen round, I brought them with me safe and sound. Oh, care of cares! - - Alas! alas! But man is man; - - so let it pass.
Thy ruins, Lanercost sublime! Fringed with the climbing shrubs of time; Thee, Naworth! where in hall and hold Lord William Howard ruled of old, I saw; from whence the chiefs of yore Surveyed afar each wildering moor, - - Bewcastle and Spade Adam, lands That once sent forth marauding bands.
Thus England's borders met my view, Where once the Roman eagles flew, Where Scotland's hardy clans from far Poured on these plains the tide of war. But now we live in happier times, Unmenaced by surrounding crimes: - - I ramble tranquil far and near, Through unknown regions bleak and drear, Over mountain surge, through moorland glen, Unshot At by moss-trooper men; I wander back to Gilsland Well, And doff my shoes in Great Hotel.Lowther: Addressed With True Esteem To The Earl Of Lonsdale

While public cares my noble friend employ, Relieved and sweetened by domestic joy, Or while retired within that beauteous vale, Whose woods wave gently in the mountain gale, He views his Lowther in her pensive shade, And soothes with kind concern the drooping maid; With gentle hand her lovely face reveals, Till every breast the power of beauty feels: While Lonsdale thus our pleased attention draws, I leave my cot, round which the Emont flows, And pass those meads with many a wild flower gay, The Muse companion of my fragrant way. - -
The Muse, not sparing of her humble powers, Oft visits, Lowther! thy luxuriant bowers, Where liberal Nature over the favoured ground Waves her full hand, and spreads profusion round; Where hill and valley, wood and plain, we see, And rock and water bring their gifts to thee. These dressed and modelled with a skilful air, Will make thee rise majestic, lovely fair! Till the pleased visitant shall bear in mind These beauties, left mid northern hills behind.
When man was formed in Eden's happy grove, The blissful seat of innocence and love, He had his Maker's mild commands to dress His beauteous bower, his lovely wilderness! So in these latter days continued toil Must still reclaim the oft-relapsing soil, Must curb the wandering foliage wildly gay, Renew the mansion hastening to decay, And, with a studious eye and fostering hand, Enlarge the reign of beauty through the land.
Much has been done: successive chiefs, we find, Have left memorials of their taste behind. Here the first Lonsdale sought his native air, When Britain's councils could his wisdom spare; Preferred his books, his garden, and his pen, To the pursuits of proud aspiring men: And while to Truth and Virtue he resigned The guidance of a wise and pious mind, Beneath his care these venerable trees First waved their branches in the summer breeze. He fixed these columns of cathedral yew, Whose spiral stems in former centeries grew; Bent their green arches over the lengthened aisle, Through whose deep gloom the evening sunbeams smile. Where vales beneath and cheerful hamlets lie, He formed yon terrace fair, commanding, high; From Nature's loom the lovely carpet spread, Her softest velvet, yielding to the tread.
Succeeding chiefs enriched the wide domain, And clothed with infant woods the naked plain; The birds flew round, to people every spray, And hills stood wondering at the novel lay. They bade the limestone leave its native bed, And rise to screen the poor mechanic's head; Beneath their hands new villages appeared, And human tongues the lonely forests cheered.
The Muse prophetic sees the hand of taste Conduct new beauties through the wild-wood-waste; Through deepening groves she sees her footsteps stray, And where she moves the smooth walk winds away; Sees the rude dome above yon forest grow, The sparkling grotto hide its wealth below; Sees, Phoenix Like, the mansion rise again, And look majestic over her native plain. ' Tis done - - already, glittering from afar, Lowther's white towers salute the morning star, Day's evening splendour, the refulgent moon, And all the glories of a summer noon.
I cannot speak from architectural lore Of arched hall, saloon, and corridor; Of buttress, arrowslits, and ramparts high - - Of towers and pinnacles that reach the sky; But I can mount these battlements, behold On Carrick's brow a diadem of gold - - See from these lofty turrets light and fair, The woods shoot upwards in the heights of air, Stretch their green boughs in all their pomp of shade, And form the bowers for heavenly musing made.
But ere descending from these sunny towers, I turn my steps to yonder greenwood bowers, Attracted by the venerable place, I go among the wise of human race; Muse, where those noble sentiments are spread, That raised so high the living and the dead. Here stately Science lifts to heaven her eyes, And measures orbs of light in distant skies; Or, sinking to the humbler earth, explores The central fire that through her caverns roars - - The beauteous gems that slumber in her veins, And winds that rush around her realms explains; Computes the speed of light, and weighs the air, Measures the ocean, lays her wonders bare; Rides round the world triumphant on her waves, Dives in her deeps, and storms her coral caves. Here ancient sages, pious or profound, Look from their seats, dispensing wisdom round; There stand the immortal advocates of Truth, Immoveable, in the full prime of youth: Here playful Wit, light-hearted, smiling, gay, Scatters with wreaths of flowers her varied way; There cool Research, with metaphysic skill, Dissects the mind, the reason, and the will; There Pathos leads through labyrinths of woe, The heart to pity - - sweetest stream below! Here British Bards, or those of earlier days, Pour their sweet songs, their high impassioned lays; There Revelation's sacred pages shine With steady light, - - pure, holy, and divine!
 The Library.
Pride of the North! where fostering virtues reign, And shed their influence over the smiling plain; Where Piety, with Purity allied, Alike disclaims the bigot's fiery pride, And the chill sophist's creed, his sceptic air Too proudly wise to bow to Heaven in prayer. Over public good here kind Attention bends - - Here Comfort hovers, and her hand extends; The swain with vigour tills his native soil, His children reap the fruits of all his toil; The recent widow sees in tears no more The favourite heifer leave her humble door; The feudal bonds, touched by a hand benign, On yon green fields their ancient hold resign; While a glad yeomanry the change surveys, And feels begun a train of happier days.
 Alluding to the Earl of Lonsdale's enfranchising his numerous manors round Lowther.
When good Sir Richard held these fair domains, With pensive state along the silent plains, From distant scenes a beauteous stranger came. In meek distress appeared the lovely dame: Her tender griefs seemed kindly felt by all; No sprightly airs resounded through the hall; The rural sports beneath the greenwood shade Were all suspended while the stranger stayed. Yet formed for all that in her sex is found, She poured the rays of peerless beauty round; While polished sense and wit's attractive light, Prolonged the pleasure of the social night. Her condescension spoke her high degree, But more her sweet and serious dignity. Such temper' d grace the wondering menials saw - - Their lord's attention touched their minds with awe; The fairest seat the honoured stranger pressed, The first apartment lodged the exalted guest.
Oft when the sun a mellow radiance threw, Her pensive steps to silent shades withdrew; With lambs and flowers she breathed the balmy air, And thus discoursed:" Ye simple wild flowers fair," That here unseen, far from the public eye," Unenvied live, and unmolested die;" Far happier you than the distinguished flower" That on the bosom flaunts its transient hour;" For soon its beauty fades, its fragrance flies - -" Then scorned and trodden in the dust it lies." Now to the lambs she turns, that over the ground With youthful speed in frolic circles bound: Her sad, presaging bosom seemed to say," Sport, happy race! your little hour away:" A common lot perhaps our lives may close," But your blind innocence no sorrow knows."
At eventide her chamber oft she sought, And by the window lingered lost in thought. Far to the North she turned her wistful eyes, That seemed to say,"' Tis there my treasure lies." At length these peaceful scenes she must forego, And journey onward through untrodden woe. Through folding-doors her sorrowing host attends; But ere she down the winding stairs descends, Low on her knees the pious mourner fell, Prayed for her host, then took her last farewell: The generous Richard turned to weep unseen, While from his door went Mary, Scotland's queen!
Impatient now surrounding beauty calls; For her we leave these hospitable halls. The sun effulgent pours his cheering beams Over plains, over golden groves, and silver streams. Say, shall we wander where the inviting glade Sinks in a vast immensity of shade? Or climb yon airy summit rising fair, And mark the wonders that await us there? Near, distant, and around, what objects rise! Mountains that hide their foreheads in the skies, Or frown amid their wreaths of summer snow; Umbrageous vales where winding rivers flow; Broad cultured slopes and village fields appear, That wave with grass, or bend the golden ear; And plains immense, and smoking towns are seen, And numerous hills with whitened cots between; Reposing herds abundant pastures press, Or wander round in summer idleness. But, lo! a lovely apparition' s near - - Beneath yon tall trees stand the silent deer, A fearful race, that shun the abodes of men, To dwell retired within the hawthorn glen. Children of solitude! haste not away: On these green lawns as on your birthright stay; Pace round the scene - - connect these princely towers With woods sublime, wild wastes, and shadowy bowers; Then burst impetuous down the sunny glade, Or lightly gambol to the hazel shade.
Now stript of summer's load the meads are seen, Lovely as youth arrayed in tender green; While troops of village maids, alert and gay, Stretch their light rakes and toss the fragrant hay, Or build the grassy cone - - a welcome store When the green meadows shall be green no more.
At the dark entrance of yon solemn wood An ancient bridge commands the rolling flood: We pass the rustic arch, and wind along Where woodland warblers swell the choral song; - - The lark exulting climbs the front of day, The tuneful linnet pours her softest lay, The louder thrush the leafy thickets hold, The finch in raptures beats her plumes of gold: But whence that noise at every tuneful close, And why these strokes that break the sweet repose Of this fair wood? Ah, why with crashing sound Falls the tall ash a ruin on the ground? But hark again! Wild sounds foreboding woe Rise fearful from the midwood gloom below. As creeping beagles shake the corn, yet green, The forest trembles by a force unseen; The opening groves at length the power display, That over these realms of shade has long borne sway: His shaggy beard, wild eyes, and raven hair, The sullen Genius of these woods declare. Far in the gloomy wilderness he keeps His solemn court: on golden moss he sleeps. The fragrant bramble and sweet-blossomed thorn Perfume his dark pavilion eve and morn; While round his couch a thousand oaks attend Their slumbering monarch, and his rest defend. Through ages long he lay in sleep profound, While his green woods grew unmolested round; But roused to action by this gathering fray, Through his dark realms he takes his hurried way, And, with a voice that reached the distant plains, Thus sternly his imagined foes arraigns: - -" What deeds are these! Who dare with hands profane Disturb the sabbath of my ancient reign?" My faithful trees shall foreign troops invade," And alien hands despoil their reverend shade?" Ill Judging race! shall your repeated strokes" Dislodge my gallant elms and veteran oaks?" Avaunt betimes! forego your fruitless rage," Nor further war with my green people wage. " Should on your heads their mighty arms descend," Stunned, crush' d, and mangled, to the earth you bend. "
Before the Chief three beauteous wood-maids stand, Thus softly speak, and softly touch his hand: - -" We come, thy duteous handmaids, to assuage" Thy rising wrath, and soothe thine honoured age;" We come in peace, the ministers of Taste," To dress and cheer this solitary waste;" To smoothe a passage through this wide domain," And shew the wonders of thy ancient reign. " Permit the toils thy suppliant daughters share." His features softened, spoke by maids so fair; He nods assent, and to his shades withdrew. The woodland train their sylvan toils renew; Umbrageous walks round pathless valleys twine, Descending streams through nodding alders shine, And the deep midwood gloom now first receives The sunbeams on its solitary leaves; While lovely, over its dark and sombre green, The passing light and tints of gold are seen.
See Lonsdale's Countess, Lonsdale's daughter fair, To' tangled brakes, and briers, and thorns repair. But thorns and briers and' tangled brakes obey, The smooth walk follows where they lead the way; The river's verge we trace, the mount we climb, Where Lowther rises mid her woods sublime; And over her lovely lawns we now behold Her presence more majestic than of old. We see the sun that held his course on high Descend from his bright journey through the sky, Pour on her walls the artillery of his rays, Till all seems wrapped in one rich golden blaze!
Here from this world of shade a track of light Leads to the towers of Lowther, rising white; They seem to stand high on the topmost grove, Green woods beneath, cerulean heaven above. Seven paces on, the apparition's fled, And endless woods are waving over our head.
To deeper shades we go, and hills more high, Where silent woods seem reaching to the sky: A solitary pleasure marks our way, As slowly through surrounding gloom we stray: We seem imprisoned by a mighty wood. Our bondage soothed by a murmuring flood. While these sweet solitudes our steps detain, We wish not forests over the western main; For who would Yanwath's towering oaks resign, Or Buckham's tall elms, for Canadian pine?
 The two noble woods that border the River Lowther are Yanwath Wood and Buckham.
Far in the vast recesses of the shade, Sheltered and warm in Nature's green lap laid, Are beauteous holms and fields, elysian fair, Far from the world's inquietude and care: Conflicting tongues, loud sports, and noisy toil Break not the quiet of this peaceful soil. And farther still a lovely region lies. Where numerous trees over all the surface rise; Grotesque their forms; their branches wide extend, Rise high in air, or drooping downward bend; Their spreading foliage mitigates the day, And over the ground their trembhng shadows play.
With gentle joy through these loved tracks I rove, And mark the varying scenes from grove to grove; The withered trunk, the mossy stone survey, The silent monitors of man's decay! The elm's wide-woven roots diffusely spread, The river restless on its stony bed, The beauteous beech that waves with silver rind, The ivyed ash over the dark pool inclined, The giant oak - - and here my foot I stay, Its rising stem, its spreading boughs survey - - Its waving boughs with verdant honours crown' d, And trunk that measures many a fathom round.
I love the forest; and with pleasure view Its varied foliage and its varied hue: But who amid the crowded scene can trace Peculiar loveliness, selected grace? Yet partial fondness may a favorite bring To public view, and of that favorite sing. The weeping birch, like some majestic fair, In sorrow drown' d, with long dishevelled hair, Its beauteous branches drooping from on high, Waves in the breeze, and sighs, or seems to sigh.
In silent woods retired, the ancient thorn Spreads his white locks before the opening morn; His mossy beard bespeaks him very old, And much he muffles from the pinching cold: Yet as the sun advances on his way His robe he changes, and looks young and gay; And when the spring her vernal freshness pours, His fragrant blossoms sweeten all the bowers: Thus grey and old he meets the wintry scene, Then bursts in summer with the loveliest green. Thou pruning woodman, his wild branches spare, His snowy blossoms, and his silver hair!
The stately oak with greater awe behold, Nor touch one honour of the monarch old: Lo! how he towers on yonder rising ground, And spreads his arms with dignity around! Thrice has the race of men been swept away Since on these hills he first bore sovereign sway. Then let no thoughtless hand, no random blow, Untimely bring his hoary honours low.
On yon fair knoll that lifts its groves on high, Seven aged brothers meet the wandering eye: Rugged and vast each awful form appear? ; Like chiefs they stand, the chiefs of other years! Shorn of meridian pride, the ancient race Stretch their long arms as anxious to embrace; But withered, stiff, their rigid arms decline, As wont of old, in cordial grasp to twine. Majestic oaks! what changes have you seen Since, saplings young, you waved your branches green! Stricken in years, could you to us relate What frequent storms have shook your forest state; What feathered tribes have sought your friendly shade, When nimble lightenings round your foreheads played; How, roused by dreadful winds in every grove, The enraged trees in furious conflict strove; What kindred plants have flourished by your side, And neighbering trees in former centeries died! These could you show, an interesting tale From this fair mount might spread along the vale.
Five hundred years these aged oaks have stood, The guardians of this venerable wood: We now their mutilated arms behold Pointing to where the Castle rose of old. Fallen, forsaken Castle, now no more! Rude trees, rank weeds, wild brambles, hide thy floor! Imagination, wandering round and round, Peoples again the solitary ground With dauntless men and maids, a hardy race, That rushed at morn promiscuous to the chase: But now their names seem scattered on the wind - - For them Tradition hardly stays behind.
I love the rivers, rolling full and wide; I love to stand, an atom, on their side; And mark their depth, their strength and speed survey And onward course through all its length of way. Lowther! thy streams run down a rugged vein; Mangled on rocks, they to the woods complain: But such complaints the Muse delights to hear; The sound of water' s music in her ear. As when two lovers whose affections glide Faithful and full in one harmonious tide, If sauntering through some woody vale they stray, And part in sport, but parting lose their way, Soon serious at their loss, the anxious swain Calls out aloud, intent to meet again; In softer tone replies the timid maid, And straight they pass the intervening shade. Thus, generous river! rising over thy tide Green woody isles thy winding course divide; Thy severed streams, uneasy thus to flow, Here foam and thunder on the rocks below, There plaintive tones of murmuring sweetness rise, Deep calls to deep, and stream to stream replies.
Melodious stream! that wind thy crystal floods Through opening rocks, and dark enclosing woods; Thou hold thy steady progress day by day, While months, and years, and ages pass away! Unchanged thyself, say, didst thou take thy name Or when the Roman or the Norman came? Was such thy name when the bold Briton stood A painted warrior by the gloomy flood, In the clear pool his martial form to see? Or did the Lowthers give their name to thee? Distinguished stream! along thy banks sublime Still may they flourish through advancing time; Still over these vales their kindly influence shed, Long as thy waters seek the ocean's bed!
Continuing stream! ah, could these transient rhymes, Like thy sure waves, flow on to future times, Then, when this tongue is mute, it might be told On thy fair banks, how one in days of old, That in sweet solitude a pleasure knew, Oft to thy side from busier scenes withdrew, And with thy rocks and woods familiar grew. Yes! and the faithful numbers might record The passing hour shared with thy virtuous lord, When, senates, courts, and public cares resigned, He gave to rural joys his thoughtful mind; While murmuring waters, meads as emeralds green, Majestic woods, delicious vales between - - All filled with living harmony - - inspired What Tully felt in Tusculum retired.Emont Vale:

Emont! to thee I pour the grateful lay, Who saw my childhood on thy borders play; Who felt the stone oft break thy placid wave, And kissed my shrinking foot irresolute to lave. Emont, I come! - - Thy murmurs seem for me; I stop by turns, and muse, and look on thee. I count white pebbles through thy clear expanse, And view the spring-flies on thy bosom dance; Or, one by one, the finny race behold Dart through thy waves in ebony and gold. Again I move: I meet thee in thy haste Swift posting onward to the watery waste. We meet and pass; but still I have thee near, Tuning thy murmurs in my partial ear. Advancing still, I find thee calm, at rest, A sylvan landscape painted on thy breast. Anon with turbulence I see thee flow Through woody isles - - an archipelago!
Meandering Emont! to thy wailings wild I've listened long - - have listened from a child. Oft, when the weary winds have sunk to rest, I've heard thy voice prophetic from the west Foretell the coming snow, the approaching rains; But when the thaws had deluged all the plains, Mild from the east I've heard thy songs arise, Portending vanquished clouds and azure skies. Delightful stream! what lovely bowers are thine! How fair thy banks with peaceful beauties shine! What purple flowers thy sinking meads adorn! How soft the verdure of thy rising corn! While stately trees in noble masses stand, That seem the guardians of this fruitful land.
On Hartshope's heights, led by their sprightly sound, Two lovely springs a wandering shepherd found. Burst from contiguous hills in youthful play, This sought the north, and that its eastern way; Leaped from the rocks, sung to the mountain-gale, Then crept in silence through the quiet vale. Their strength increasing as they onward passed, Each softly slumbered in a lake at last. The mighty Ullse, and solitary Hawse, Saw in their floods their mountain friends repose. Enlarged, invigorated, now again They leave their rest, and wash the fruitful plain: Their copious waves the gladdened peasants view, And Lowther call the stream of darker hue - - The fairer Emont; and as on they wind, In their embrace a lovely vale they bind: Their liquid stores the thirsty herds invite, And to the labouring mills they lend their might. Thus having toiled apart for many a mile, And seen fair hamlets on their borders smile. To beauteous Lowther Emont winds his tide, Salutes her waves, and courts her to his side. " Come, gentle stream! On yon blue hills afar, Where evening twilight hangs her silver star, We had our being; but asunder cast, Through distant valleys, here we meet at last! - - Thus having met, oh! let us part no more, But roll as one along the willowy shore." The proffered union pleased the generous dame; She joins her treasures, and resigns her name; With pleasant sounds of mutual joy they go To meet the Eden in his holmes below.
Much favoured stream! at evening's shadowy hour The modest maiden seeks thy quiet bower; And, all unseen, her virgin softness laves In the cool crystal of thy limpid waves. The youths more daring - - when the sun on high Looks down in triumph from a glowing sky, Along thy shores they seek the gloomy pool, With headlong plunge their heated limbs to cool. But, oh! beware; nor tempt with desperate leap The unknown waters spreading dark and deep! - - As lone and lingering on thy banks I strayed, While silver sunbeams on thy waters played, Five heedless youths on thy green margin stood; Each cheering each, they plunged into the flood. - - I looked no further, till the shrieks of woe Roused my attention, - - when, alarmed, I saw A struggling victim eddying round and round, While flying comrades' frantic cries resound. Yet on I rushed, a brother's life to save, Though thrice I saw him sink beneath the wave. With eager grasp his nerveless arm I caught; From the dark pool his helpless form I brought, And laid him gently on the quiet shore. The airs of heaven his vital breath restore: Escaped in safety from a watery grave. He saw again the sunbeams on thy wave!
I am no Solitary, but repair To woods and streams what time my duties spare: Musing my fancies, silent and unseen, I build my hovel' mong thy alders green! - - Emont! I wish - - I will not say I pray - - Thou would' st not wash my little works away! - - My hovel seemed a quiet Hermitage, For pacing there I met the Man of Age, With shaggy beard, with visage long and spare, Seen indistinctly through a shade of hair: All hermit-like I've seen him oft and long, Wandering with downcast eyes these woods among. He held his passage through the hedge of thorn, And by his foot the verdant path was worn. Oft when from eastern steeps the sun's first beam Shone on the topmost grove with golden gleam, I've seen him search these solitudes profound, For his spare meal to gather herbs around. It has been said, that once in realms afar, He mingled in the glittering ranks of war: Shook by these fearful scenes, he came again, A harmless maniac wandering over the plain; And spoke of troubles brooding in the skies, Too strange to tell - - too big for human eyes. Poor Somerville! - - not in thy woes alone, - - From many a noble mind oft Reason's light' s withdrawn.
But now I leave my puny toils, to trace Works that are worthier of the human race. - - Beneath the shadow of yon grove behold Where peerless Clifford dwelt in days of old! - - Clifford, that sprung from noble Cumberland, And gave to Pembroke's earl her plighted hand. But early widowed, the distinguished dame Preserved her independence and her fame; Gay Charles's court and Cromwell's power withstood, And dared be simple, dignified, and good.
There dwells respect in every generous mind For virtue, for the illustrious of our kind. Among the scenes where the bright virtues shone, We feel a homage even for mouldering stone; A tower, a walk, a cottage, or a tree, Haunts of the wise, with interest deep we see. Then long these spots will be by genius sought, Where ruled a Clifford, or where Cowper thought; And Meditation here, with sandaled feet, Will hold with long-past times communion sweet - - Will pensive sit beneath the yawning wall, Where Pembroke's towers seem bending to their fall.
Majestic ruins! venerable pile! Where studious art and long laborious toil, United, strove to rear these domes on high, Pride of the valley, towering to the sky! But what avails the arch expanding wide, The stately column, or the turret's pride! Now bare of all, save where yon cliffs between The wild ash waves her solitary green.
Was it for this the Master - Builder strove, Unlock' d the quarry, and disrobed the grove, And dug the deep foundations in the ground, And piled the timber and the stones around? No more is heard the mason's rustic lay, No more his chisel sounds the live-long day; No more in crowds the ready menials wait, Or pawing coursers thunder at the gate. Alas! with weeds and brambles covered over, The genial hall resounds with joy no more! For ever vanished are the glittering train, That gaily rode along this fair domain; While the thin grass the simple field-flower waves, Unheeded over their long - forgotten graves!
Thus fare the works of man! the fading strength Of ancient grandeur sinks subdued at length. But though the fortress falls, the cottage fair Cheers with its simple front the morning air! Yet can we pass the Dudley's hoary tower, Where once protection dwelt with feudal power; Or ardent Dacre's, seen with hope and awe, Ere Reason's scattered rays were organized in law.
 Yanwath Hall.
 Dacre Castle.
Now up the long dark avenue of time, In Mayborough's grove I hear the mystic rhyme. Imagination fills the circling space With Druid Bards - - a long-forgotten race! Their oral songs a fearful import bear, Which listening crowds in reverent silence hear. The Druid Oak, that reigns over every tree, Seems in its gloom to hold their deity, Whom Britons think by human sacrifice To gain - - their altars smoking to the skies.
Round yon white stone that in the centre stands, The Druids stretch their consecrating hands; Loose fleecy robes their aged limbs enfold, And wreaths of sacred misletoe they hold; Their flaxen beards down their full bosoms stream, Their ardent eyes emit a living gleam: While smooth and bright each silver head appears, Crowned with the deep solemnity of years. See man, the victim of a barbarous creed, In worship by his fellow-creatures bleed; See him amid a savage crowd expire, And buried in a pyramid of fire!
' Twas thus of old a monstrous worship grew On human passion, horrible to view!' Twas thus of old that Superstition's hand With gloom and terror hung the darkened land: To fix her reign with barbarous rites she strove; Her gods were local, and their shrines the grove. But now effulgent from her native sky Breaks heavenly Truth - - the Pagan symbols fly; While pure devotion centres in the mind, In love to God and love to human kind.
From hoary Druid in his solemn bower, From Pembroke's Countess in her Brougham Tower, I turn to other times, and there behold The Table Round of Arthur, monarch old! His knights advance, and dames of high degree Behold their various feats of chivalry. - - The knights grow dim, the vision melts away, But the Round Table and deep trenches stay.
On yon fair hill, see Brougham with gentle grace Look forth complacent from her wood's embrace! Of many a pleasing trait the Muse could tell; The straw-roof'd cot, the mossy-lined cell, The lightsome green, the pine-surrounded glade, The sun-gilt terrace and the gloomy shade, Seen through the trees the modest house of prayer, Where man may change for heavenly, earthly care.
And now we turn to yonder tranquil scene, Where Spring's first visit marks her steps with green. Beneath the shade of Carleton's secret bowers, How sweet to rest upon a bank of flowers! Or wander onward by the Emont's side, Whose silver waves these beauteous lawns divide! - - Delicious lawns! the mountains that surround Your happy scenes - - to have these mountains crowned With morning blushes or with evening gold - - Delicious lawns!' twere lovely to behold! These peaceful scenes lay unobserved and waste, Till Wallace saw them with the eye of taste: Obnoxious brushwood, odious weeds he found; - - They fled, and fragrant roses blush'd around: On naked uplands infant forests sprung, While birds flew round and on their green boughs sung; Umbrageous walks through pathless valleys run, From crowds retired, and from a cloudless sun. In these cool walks, these scenes of calm delight, Oft have I seen( and kindled at the sight) On summer eve the youths, the maidens stray, And, smiling, pass their fellows on the way. Sweet Carleton! ere my wandering I renew, Accept the tribute that to thee is due! Oft has thy welcome met me when I stray'd, Thy social kindness my return delayed.
With lingering steps advancing on my way, At every turn new objects I survey. Say, who is she that with a stately air Stands on thy banks, and views the landscape fair?' Tis Skirsgill! yonthful maid! these scenes she loves; Hers are the fields, the meadows, and the groves: She looks benignly over thy winding tide, And as they pass she hears thy waters chide.
But more retired, yon Lady of the Dale Courts the cool freshness of the mountain gale - - Sees the green hills in pleasing prospect rise, And distant mountains meet the bending skies; And while she hears a thousand warblers sing, And while her lambs are racing in a ring, She, sweet and peaceful, from her rising bowers Smiles over her lovely lawn of native flowers.
 Dalemain. - - Main signifies chief: hence Dalemain, the Chief of the Dale.
Yonder Dunmallet, lofty, steep, and fair, Lifts from the vale a forest in the air, Where rival trees, contending side by side, Display in Nature's theatre their pride - - A hill of harmony! The Ides of spring Hear sweet and loud a thousand warblers sing; The finch, the linnet, blackbird, and the thrush, Pour their rich songs from every bough and bush. Attractive mount! the stranger on his way Beholds thy towering cone, thy foliage gay, And journeys onward with uplifted eyes, Till England's favourite lake before him lies, A flood of silver, on whose margin green Are fields, and woods, and scattered mansions seen.
Such, beauteous Emont! thy fair banks disclose, And such the fields through which thy current flows! Pleased with the scenes, along thy shores I'm led To where thou risest from thy watery bed; Thy crystal bed, in mountain-forests deep, Round which unnumbered murmuring streamlets weep! Fair Ullse receives their tributary store, And while her waves repose against the shore. She bids the genii of her realms display The circling scene in all its colours gay. Sudden as thought, in just proportions rise The sun, the clouds impending from the skies; While mountains, rocks, and solitary woods Shoot their tall honours downward in the floods. Above the lake, in majesty sublime,( Their strength uninjured by the lapse of time,) The Giant Sons of Earth exalted stand, A savage, frowning, formidable band; While Man, and all his works of puny might, Dwindle and sink to nothing in their sight. Of adverse character these chiefs appear - - A wild attire of woods and rocks they wear. Here heaves the Peak its high undaunted form, And braves the rage of every angry storm; There the white Cliff, projecting over its base, Shows the strong features of its veteran face. Here the proud Mountain, towering, bold, and steep, Its head in heaven, its footsteps in the deep, Frowns like a sultan, destined to command The obedient waters and the subject land; While the rough cataract roaring in its sides, In darkest shades its headlong fury hides.
Ye towering heights in gorgeous pomp array' d, Oft have I marked your various light and shade; Beheld thick darkness fill the vales below, While noontide light would on your summits glow"! I've seen light vapours from your base ascend, And in wild forms from point to point extend; Climb up your sides, and with overwhelming sweep, Hang all the neighbouring realms with shadows deep. When sable clouds involve the evening skies, With what tremendous gloom the mountains rise! But when the morn's unsullied beams extend, In pure ethereal blue their sunny summits end.
Or swollen with rage, or smooth as polished glass, Winding around a scene I cannot pass, Beneath the shade of old oaks, we survey Ullswater hold its everlasting way. Long as the world has vast Helvellyn stood, And thrown his evening shadows over the flood; The march of darkness from his towering height, With heavy pace overpowers the troops of light. But from the East, where glows the orb of day, Wave the green woods, glitter the rough rocks grey, Tower the tall hills, the streams with silver shine; These, more than these, are, modest Hallsteads, thine!
Amid these towering rocks, these dells profound, With woody steeps and mountains rising round, A lovely bower in sweet seclusion stands, Its native trees unreared by mortal hands; Its tangled walks, and slopes of simple green, By thoughtless crowds unvisited, unseen. Folly might well be fearful to intrude On thy repose, Celestial Solitude! Yet, modest fair! thou It not deny the few To print their footsteps in thy silver dew, To gaze enamoured on thy lake serene, Against the trunk of some old alder lean, And view in silent ecstasy the scene!
Blest Solitude! that from the haunts of men Retires to live within the narrow glen; There wanders round her own sequestered bowers, Where lambs unsullied crop the tender flowers! Immersed in sober thought I see thee stray Where chirps the white-throat from her briery spray: I see thee, pensive matron! sit alone, Listening the cuckoo on a mossy stone, Or the shrill bell that tinkles from the rocks, Borne by the leader of the climbing flocks.
Sweet Solitude! whose native charms inspire Thy votary's breast with innocent desire; Sure alien Art can nought on thee bestow! On thy fair cheek no mimic roses blow: Pure is thy breath as zephyrs on the wing, Who fragrance from their purple heathbeds bring. I see thee lift thy sweet expressive eyes, Where round thy bowers encircling mountains rise, That, with their marble bulwarks huge and strong, Wall out the world and all its busy throng; But spread within, a solitary sea Rolls innocent, from war and rapine free; And winding far, its liquid treasure bears To many a vale, and many a village cheers. Yet oft its fluttering waves thy borders greet With plaintive chidings, and with whispers sweet; While gentle Naiads over the surface smile, And sun their tresses on yon rocky isle.
Let Eastern kings their barbarous pomp unfold, And bid their temples flame with fretted gold; Let Western taste with milder beauty shine; Majestic Matron! higher claims are thine! Thy lone dominions rise, in every part, Beyond the laboured littleness of Art: - - Tall mountains, dipt in heaven's ethereal blue, Whose stately summits stretch beyond our view; Primeval hills, on whose white foreheads play The lunar light, and glittering beams of day; Dark shadowy forests bending over the floods, And pointed cliffs that pierce the towering woods; And stony wastes, where nodding hollies grow, Moss dangling high, and junipers below; And oaks depending from their heights sublime, Whose blasted honours mark the course of time. Thus round thy bowers, while matchless wonders stand, Heaven adds its favours with no sparing hand; While lucid raindrops cheer the fields below, Athwart thy vale she rears her shining bow, Or pours her sunbeams down thy glittering steeps, Or throws her lustre over the trembling deeps; While dimly seen, thy solemn mountains tower, Hung with the weeping-willows of a shower.
Steep are thy hills, and over their foreheads high Appears by day a narrow-vaulted sky; By night a starry canopy is seen, Shot like an arch the mountain-tops between. And when to rest the summer suns retire, They seem to set the mountain-tops on fire; The transient blaze illumes their summits hoar - - A moment, and the brilliant light is over.
Nor less sublime, when the clear winter nights Have kindled at the pole their northern lights. Scarce seen, at first, the feeble splendours rise; But gaining on the centre of the skies, They form a lofty dome with banners spread;, That wave with gold, with purple, green, and red; While glittering spears, by unseen armies driven, Flash, dart, and combat through the vault of heaven.
Oft on thy tranquil vale and summer sides, Thou seest aloft the gathering storm arise; Unmoved thou mark its progress through the air, While frighted flocks to sheltering walls repair. Now breaks the surge on thy indented shores, Down the deep valley the black tempest roars; The maddening torrent foams the cliffs between, And raging forests fight amid the scene.
More dreadful still, when through the livid air With silent haste the rapid lightnings glare; On wings of tire they speed their course afar, To rouse the slumbering elements to war. Now unseen hosts, embattled on the steeps, Launch their loud thunders over the shuddering deeps; Opposing hills return the volleying sound, The caves rebellow and the cliffs rebound; Wood, rocks, and mountains mingle in the fray, And ancient Chaos hopes again her prey.
Another hue this Alpine scene unfolds, When Winter here his iron sceptre holds - - Enslaves the fountains, binds in chains the floods, And hangs with pendent icicles the woods; While, towering over the dread abyss below, Ascends the lofty pyramid of snow.
Through the long evening, cowering over the fire, The cottage children listen to their sire, Who now relates adventures odd and old. That in his youth to him his father told. Thus many a wild and interesting tale Is chronicled within the lonely vale.
A stranger once, as ancient story goes, By night came wandering down the mountain snows. The moon was dark, and lonely was the way, No cottage window lent its kindly ray; No village cur a watchful guardian stood, To bay the prowler in the neighbouring wood. So on he journeyed through the fields below, Clad in their wintry robes of new-fallen snow, Till in his course a level plain he found, That far among aspiring mountains wound. The sheeted mountains, through the gloom of night, Like shapeless spectres awful rose in white; While over their heads a solitary star Peeped frequent from the sombre clouds afar. Speechless and cold, all dismal to his eye, In her white shroud he saw Creation lie. His faithful steed made signs of inward fear, Filled with a sense of hidden danger near; Yet still he rode, and rode, and rode along, With silent speed the snowy hills among.
While hurrying onward in a course unknown, Benighted, weary, desolate, alone. The surface trembles, and a hollow sound Rose from below, and filled the regions round. The stranger started now in wild surprise; But soon the sound among the mountains dies.
Still inly pondering where his course might end, He wistful saw the barrier hills ascend, And asks his eyes, if now, what mountains seem, Be not the effort of a dubious dream? At length with joy the village-clock he hears, And the dim dawn on Eastern hills appears; The fire is shining through the cottage pane, He hears the sound of human voice again; Of kitchen hearth he feels the temperate glow, Recounts his long, long progress through the snow: On Lengthened Plain, by night still lengthened more, He loves to dwell, and tell its wonders over.
The generous host attentive heard his guest, And thus replied: - -" Now, stranger, take thy rest! How kind is Heaven! Did hapless mortals view The dangers near, what misery would ensue? Sable and deep, beneath the vale of snow, Of ancient Ullse the mighty waters flow, Whose fatal springs dissolve the frozen plain, Where he who sinks must never rise again!" - - The stranger listened, trembling and aghast, And died in terror of the dangers past.
With eyes of poesy and breasts of flame, Here Wordsworth, Southey, Scott, and Coleridge came. Touched with these scenes, the living minstrels strung Their various lyres, and by your caverns sung! With silent wonder from their rocky towers, The mountain virgins leaned and heard the tuneful powers.
To these lone regions came melodious Gray: Here wandered Burke familiar on his way, - - Left stormy scenes of public life behind, To add fresh treasures to his copious mind: He saw the landscape savage, sweet, or wild, Rocks piled on rocks, on mountains mountains piled: With kindly views he sought the peasant's cot, Broke bread with shepherds, and enjoyed his lot. When public duty called him from the plain, And senates saw him in their turn again, The heights of eloquence his genius found, - - He looked as from Helvellyn's steeps around, On Heaven and earth; - - his splendid figures brought From Nature's works, and the rich mines of thought. In British hearts he touched the springs of woe, Till sighs broke forth and tears began to flow: His port was noble, yet his heart was kind, His mind a chieftain in the ranks of mind!
 Some years afterwards the writer had the satisfaction of breakfasting with Edmund Burke, at his house in London, when his recollection of these scenes was accurate and strong; and so true was the circumstance of his breaking bread by our Lake, that alighting at a cottage, he found an old woman baking oat-bread, - - he immediately joined her in her employment, baked his cake also, and ate it afterwards.
Here Wilberforce from listening senates came, His bosom glowing with a holy flame. He viewed a quarter of this goodly earth Cradled in chains the moment of their birth; From bad to worse he saw a people hurled, The tortured slaves of an unfeeling world. - - With views like these he entertained the plan To raise the unequal scale of suffering man. Conviction heard his voice, and Britain rose A host of partners in the righteous cause. Go, Wilberforce! assist the labouring state, Where British wisdom leads the high debate! Perform thy part; - - then far, in mountains rude, Come to the pure delights of solitude!
Here indefatigable Clarkson stayed His weary foot, and slept in Enismere's shade. For wronged humanity long toils he bore, Sought slumbering Truth around from shore to shore; Brought such a scene of wickedness to light, Astonished England shudder' d at the sight. - - Though here awhile he found a place of rest, Sad Afric's woes still lingered in his breast: Yet, as he took his solitary rounds, The mountain breezes soothed his inward wounds.
And last, to remedy the crying wrong, With propositions vigorous and strong Brougham moved the Senate, that a Briton found Dragging; for sale his fellow-creature bound, The odious being should at once be hurled To till the furthest confines of the world. The ready Senate ratified each clause: - - Thus Britain gains new triumphs by her laws!
Through these lone wilds with female worth I've strayed, With virtuous mother, or with studious maid. - - Here modest Smith in blest retirement dwelt. Though pious, she the charms of Nature felt: - - In these green vales she was a lovely light Around our dwellings, innocently bright!
Divine compassion ever dwelt on high; Descending now, it warms the breast of Fry! She feels its influence through her lowly mind; She seeks in love the lowest of her kind; She opes the prison-doors to yield relief, And soothe the wretched family of grief! She speaks in peace the audience of woe, - - Vice hangs its head, and tears begin to flow: Despair is tender' d ere she comes away, And scowling blasphemy is heard to pray. - - The scene how changed from the felon's den, To where the cottage smokes in greenwood glen! To where the beetling rocks of Styberough join The solitary valley of Glencoyn! To where Glenridding's thousand roses blow, Around the mountain base, its summit crowned with snow!
All Welcome strangers! wheresoever your home, If scenes like ours allure you forth to roam. Nature for you unfolds her countless stores, From the high cliff the endless cataract roars, The headlong Arey thunders from on high, And rears for you her rainbow in the sky,  It is not very unusual to see snow remaining on Helvellyn while roses blow in the valley beneath.
Shakes her deep woodland dell with ceaseless fray, Then steals by Lyulph's Tower unseen away. Come, generous strangers!( while, at leisure laid, I muse unheeded in the hawthorn shade,) Ascend our mountains, penetrate our woods, Explore our valleys, navigate our floods, Suggest improvements to the listening hind, - - But, oh! in morals leave no taint behind!
And you, dear maids! the Muse's tender care, If led by taste you to these steeps repair, With cautious valour up the mountain wind, And look by turns on all you leave behind! Hill above hill surmounting as you rise, Pursue your journey gaining on the skies, Till on the extremest mountain-point you stand, And seem to see a world at your command! - - But you must yet descend, adventurous fair! Oh! then, of rock, and bog, and fog beware; Restrain your downward speed - - you are not deer; - - Even they and you might use a wholesome fear.
A gallant stag, the favourite of his race, On Gowberough's heights would lead the playful chase - - The rocks his terrace, - - and with many a bound From cliff to cliff he gaily gamboled round: Now to the summit of the steep he goes, - - Like arms of withered oak his antlers rose; Now down the rugged hills he bursts amain, Nor woods nor mountain-streams his speed detain. He rushes on, till from a dell profound, Buried in shade, he heard a rumbling sound: He pierced the gloom, and, piteous to relate, Down the tremendous Arey met his fate! Low on her rocks the beauteous victim lay, And long she laved him with her silver spray!
But most of all delusive vapours dread, Curling their white locks round the mountain's head. When roll the mists on high, oh! stay below, Lest over the dreadful precipice you go!
When Gough looked upward from sweet Patterdale, He saw the clouds round high Helvellyn sail; To the blue lake he saw the Goldrill wind, But left the Goldrill and the lake behind. His dog( a true companion day by day) Through fern, through heath, through rushes, led the way. The sun smiled sweetly through the opening cloud On the green mountain, and the lark sang loud. Above the rock's stupendous height he rose - - Around his head the rolling vapours close. Of giant size each shapeless object grew, Nor up from down, nor right from left he knew: Bewildering mists confound his doubtful way; He stands - - he staggers on in deep dismay, Till headlong over the fearful steep he passed, And falling many a fathom, breathed his last! - - His faithful dog pursued him as he fell, Paced round his lord with many a mournful yell; Then at his feet his weary head he laid, Moaned in his sleep, and till the morning stayed.
Thus passed the nights: - - and when the rosy dawn On Swirril's rocks and Striden's horrors shone, To his dead lord the faithful servant crept, Pulled his damp robe, and wondered why he slept; Or with loud barkings hurried round and round - - Alas! his master' woke not at the sound.
Thus night by night he watch' d, and day by day, Till all his former lord dissolved away. Yet still the same: - - for many a month gone by, By his bleached bones the loyal dog would lie; And he would tarry wistful and forlorn, Beside the coat by his loved master worn. - - What wonderous power this faithful dog possessed! Say, could it enter his half - human breast, That while his bones were scattered on the ground, His master's mournful spirit hovered round? Or could he think, his homely garments near, His lord would rising from the heath appear; And dressed again, over mountains take his way, Marking with kind encouragement his play?
The moon had thrice revolved through the sky, When a lone shepherd heard a wailful cry, Far in Helvellyn: - - following the sound, The dog, the robes, the owner's name were found. His scattered bones a train of shepherds brought Down the steep mountain, and the valley sought; - - By Ladybeck his light remains we bore, Dug his sepulchre on her peaceful shore,  I attended the interment of the remains of this poor young man, when they appeared so light that it would not have been difficult to have borne them to the grave under one's arm.
And low in earth his gathered relics laid, Where weeps over many a grave the lime-tree shade.
On yon proud hill of old the torch of war Was seen, a signal blazing wide and far. Accustomed to alarms, the people rose With fiery speed to combat with their foes. - - These feuds are past, these angry feelings cease; Over this green valley spread the wings of Peace: The public mind is turned to milder cares; The husbandman the yielding soil prepares; Or on the evening of that holy day For toil to rest and piety to pray, He with his mate among the cattle roves. Through open pastures and retiring groves. Thus happy Jacob with his Rachel strayed In Haran, and their feeding flocks survey'd. Hail, wedded pair! with feelings of delight I follow you who arm in arm unite. - - But, ah! I've known, when early joys are over, The wedded pair walk arm in arm no more! And yet I've seen, when health and strength were past, Attentions kind shine brighter to the last! This is the silver cord that virtue binds, - - The power of love - - the union of minds.
Where bluish smoke from tufts of wood aspires, The dame is kindling up her cottage fires. With ready foot she hurries over the floor, At the loud rap of stranger at the door;  Penrith Beacon Hill.
Now spreads her board with hospitable grace, Joy in her words and gladness in her face; Then from the adjoining field she calls her lord, While mantling pleasure crowns the cottage board.
And yet the scene is not exempt from woe: We ca n't forget the heart that aches below; That mourns with many a tear the long-lost son. The buried wife, or beauteous maid undone; The pang of toiling, - - innocent distress, That finds, do what it can, its little less!
You, who the brilliant scenes of cities fire, You who to lonely solitude retire! Come climb with me: - - the pointed summit won. Then let us lead the terrace of the sun, The surface smoothe, in gently-waving line, And scatter on its verge the mountain-pine. The work complete, then you who dwell below May join on high the maid of rosy glow, Sweet smiling Health! as innocent as fair, And find her favours worthy of your care.
With culture gay yon Southern fields behold. Where rung the Muses' silver harps of old. ' Twas there a Langhorn's verse began to flow. That sang so sweet of hapless Owen's woe!' Twas there, great Addison! thy fathers strayed. And still thy kindred flourish in the shade. Pure moralist! thy animated page Was formed to please, to teach, to mend the age: The Muse, the valley, glory in the plea, Even to prefer a distant claim to thee. Where lights the sun on yon far-distant fane, There Carlisle listened to her Percy's strain, - - Bard of the simple lay and ancient lyre, Who fanned in my young breast the Muse's fire. - - Hail, gentle race! when Time has swept away The names of men distinguished in their day, - - Men who with loftier port once strode along, - - Eyes yet unopened shall peruse your song, And bathe your leaves with tears, - - a tribute meet To mental worth - - affectionate and sweet!
High in the East, see purple mountains rise; Far North, a shower hangs waving in the skies; And where behind remotest hills ascend, Their milk-white flocks the Caledonians tend: - - A hardy race, inured to want and cold, On barren hills their stormy seats they hold; Wrapt in their plaids, in open air they lie, And count the stars till sleep withdraws the sky.
Round this sweet vale what barrier mountains rise! From where the dayspring opens in the skies, To where the sun descending sinks to rest Amid the glories of the golden West! Here broad majestic Crossfell heaves on high A wall immense that seems to bear the sky; There lofty Skiddaw, rising from afar, Sustains the shock of elemental war: Around his head the rapid lightnings play, While down his sides the thunder rolls away!  Doctor Percy, Dean of Carlisle, afterwards Bishop of Dromore.
But chief of Cumbrian hills, Blencathra rears His forky crown, associate with the spheres. A thousand flocks his purple sides adorn; Green meadows at his feet, and fields of ripened corn. Here marble gulphs yawn hideous on the sight, Where wintry tempests bellow through the night: There herbage climbs the precipice's head, - - Herbage where never mountain-browser fed! Here clouds, the beauteous rock-work of the sky, In towers of silver meet the wondering eye; While their deep shadows seem from Heaven to show Tremendous caverns to the world below! There the vast fragment on the mountain-side Reclines as if its fetters were untied, And waited but the hand to launch amain, Bound from the steep, and plough the smoking plain! It moves; - - but slowly is its course begun, As loath to quit these regions of the sun: Then, irritated by the rough descent, It spurns the cliffs, in headlong fury bent: - - And now it springs and darts, and bounds and flies, And tears the earth, and fills with dust the skies; Now stalks with weary step, - - now bursts amain, And draws the shivered mountain in its train! The trembling flocks in consternation fly Before the rude rock thundering from on high:  The ancient name of Saddleback: not higher than Skiddaw, but it has more of terrific grandeur.
At length it plunges in the gulf profound. And all the marble caverns groan around!
From airy heights, now down the mountain-breast I seek the lowly vale - - the place of rest: - - That quiet spot in Yanwath have I found, Even while the moral storms were gathering round. Dear village! while thy peaceful scenes I see, I think of what I daily owe to thee! Soft smiling farms, with woods encircled fair! Sweet sunny fields, of many a hind the care! Oft have thy friendly roofs indulgent spread Amid the storm a shelter for my head; Oft, when the year in all its rigours frowned, Thy flocks came clustering, and protection found; Oft, when mild Summer chased the storms away, The landscape smiled, the fields again were gay. Oft, when the sun returned with kindly rains, I sought thy meadows, or I trod thy plains; Oft in thy shady solitudes reclined, Through thy tall trees I heard the passing wind!
At even-tide how lovely is the scene, To see thy ruddy children spread the green, Like lambs disporting on the flowery soil, - - A pleasing solace to their father's toil! Even while I write, the evening cry ascends, And wildly over the dusky plain extends. The happy parents long defer the call, Till on the sportive group the shadows fall. Ah! how unwelcome comes the close of day To those whose greatest happiness is play!
Such scenes as these, dear village, long be thine! And long, as life, to taste such scenes be mine! From sire to son, long may thy fields descend, And Virtue's shield thy blameless maids defend! And thou, Content, fair daughter of the sky! Descend, a smiling seraph from on high! Soften the hand of Toil( for toils I share), And smoothe the forehead of expedient Care! Teach me that surer happiness we find In the small circle of a tranquil mind, Than the wide range for pleasure and for power, Whose dazzling charms oft pall within the hour!
Teach me, Immortal Power, who dwellst on high, And rulest over men and angels, earth and sky! That sordid cares arrest our course below, Or dash our vessels on the rocks of woe: That piety, and purity, and love, Begun below, will reach the blest above! There every throb of sorrow will be over, And peace will dwell with man for evermore!
Teach me with humble confidence to bear The weight of life allotted me while here. Ah, sure the pressure lightens, when I see As if the earth and heavens were spread for me! Amid the autumnal landscape I behold The golden harvests and the groves of gold; Refulgent clouds the azure arch adorn, The crimson evening and the brilliant morn. But while from hence I view the earth and skies, Far in the soul a nobler prospect lies, - - Which Paul and John in raptured vision saw In Heaven's high courts, where seraph ardours glow, - - Where holy strains from hallowed lips ascend, And angel-forms in shining robes attend The dear Messiah, and the dread Most High, Among the bright pavilions of the sky, - - Where Goodness - - Glory - - Happiness sublime - - Too wide for Nature, and too long for Time, - - Too vast for Thought - - for human powers to tell, - - Yet there at last the innocent will dwell! Oh! happy prospects of immortal bliss! - - Rich the exchange, - - even for a world like this!
