

Wednesday 18th June. Left Settle, rode to Ingleton. Ascend a long hill. Ridge of limestone rocks; a curious spring by the road which ebbs and flows... Proceeded to Kirby Lonsdale. Stopt to see a curious bridge over the River Lune. It is of great height and the underpart of the arches is ribbed. As I was examining the bridge two chimney sweepers who had sheltered themselves under it from the rain told me with grave faces that the Devil was the builder of it... proceeded to Dallam Tower, seat of Mr Wilson. Country becomes more wooded and fewer stone walls. Dallam Tower is situated near the village of Milnthorpe. It is backed by a beautiful grove of oak and other trees which cover a large hill above it. Behind it an immense tract of sand extends as far as Lancaster and the Spring tides come up the river close to the house. The county rich and fine. I have seen few places which have given me the idea of comfort on first sight, and I found these ideas completely realised.
 Friday 20th. ... Nothing interesting on the road to Kendal. A large town. Stop at the bridge and go up to the castle, built on a circular mount with a deep foss round it. The outward walls remain and some round towers... The country round Kendal is thinly wooded and is still deformed by stone walls. The church is a large Gothic building with two side isles containing nothing curious with respect to monuments... From Kendal to Bowness on Windermere Lake, a fine valley, well cultivated, on the right. Leave it together with the main road and turn off to the left... descend to Bowness having a fine view of the lake beneath.
Bowness inn: White Lion, situated about the middle of the lake; one large parlor, one smaller and good bedrooms. In the evening took a boat and rowed round the large island, to the ferry, and from thence ascended to a summerhouse built on an eminence and commanding a very advantageous view of the lake on each side.
 Saturday 21st. ... West in his guide has pointed out a variety of stations from which the lake may be seen to advantage and marked them down in his map. They are also marked on Crossthwaite's maps. These may be[ of] use to the traveller who cannot devote much time to viewing the environs but the man of taste, who makes any residence on the spot, may find points of view equally fine by mounting the different hills in search of them. The view from the opposite ferry on the eminence where the summerhouse is built and another from a cleft rock on the left of the road leading to Kendal will give very good ideas of the extent of the lake. I would also recommend a ride on the east side of the lake for about three miles. Here the lake presents a fine sheet of water and the opposite banks are finely covered with copse wood, and the tranquillity of the scene uninterrupted by those staring white houses with which the eastern banks of the lake, and particularly the upper end of it are crowded... This lower part of the lake is much the tamest in point of mountains; those at the upper end have very grand features and fix a noble finish to this piece of water....
There are nine or ten islands in this center part of the lake, some very small only appearing like spots. They are most of them thickly covered with wood. I doubt whether they are an ornament to the lake or not, as they appear like spots and in some measure detract from the grandeur of the lake. The large island consists of near thirty acres. The first improver of this island was Mr English... it is not easy matter to form a plan for a house and dispose grounds conformable to the nature of the scenery around this island... The original house built by Mr English was exactly the form of a large tea canister, which we often see exposed at the outside of grocer's shop, the chimney's forming the mouth of it. [ sketch] Mr Curwen, the present proprietor added an Ionic portico to the front of this building facing Bowness. He also planted the island so thickly that its form cannot be seen; I wish it had been done with taste, but weeping willows, Lombardy poplars, trim flower beds etc, etc but ill accord with the fine rude scenery of Windermere Lake.
Dined at Calgarth where the Bishop of LLandaff( Watson) had built a comfortable house and made considerable improvements in planting, agriculture etc Near his house on a little eminence where there are some fine sycamore trees there is a good view of the lake....
To a person wishing to explore the views of the lake i should certainly prefer Bowness to any other situation though the house commands no prospect of the lake; nor are there any good walks on its banks. Lowood Inn is delightful in the last respect, being close to the borders of the lake but here it is so near its termination or rather beginning that its magnitude is not perceived; Bowness presents a grand, Lowood a quiet scene. We found good accommodations at the Salutation Inn at Ambleside.
 Sunday 22nd. June. Ambleside is prettily situated in a valley surrounded by mountains about a mile distant from the lake. After breakfast we took a ride which for its extent( about ten miles) presented such a variety of natural beauties as I believe can scarcely be equalled in any ride of the same distance. From Ambleside to Rydale, cross the river, turn up a rough road to the right. Rydale Water, a pretty little lake on which there are two islands; on the right of it rises a lofty mountain from the summit of which our guide told us that he could see eight lakes. Descend to the border of the lake and ascend again. On the summit of the hill Grasmere Lake breaks upon the sight in the most pleasing and unexpected way. A conical mountain on the left of the lake forms a fine feature. The village of Grasmere appears to advantage, surrounded by a fertile and well-cultivated vale. Beyond it is another fine valley leading to Keswick, terminated with a part of Skiddaw Mountain... There is a pretty little green island chiefly pasture, with a small patch of trees and a cottage. Leaving the view of Grasmere behind a prospect of a very different sort presents itself: three lakes surrounded with woody hills and more distant mountains; Langdale Chapel, a picturesque little building; further on some large slate quarries; masses of fern very fine, as are the tints of the rocks-- a striking scene. A little above them see Langdale Pike, two noble mountains of the most rugged form. The scenery there is particularly wild. This was the extent of my ride....
[ 1. Windermere Lake has pike, perch, trout and char; the trout rise best at the May fly; the fishing not very good. 2. Rydale Water. Pike, perch and a few trout. 3. Grasmere Water. The same. 4. Elter Water. Small trout of good colour.].
In October when the fish spawn the char frequent the Brathy, the trout the Rydale river, and in the latter they are caught of the enormous weight of 20lb. The way of catching these large trout is this: they always come out of the lakes to spawn in the smaller rivers where they are easily seen, and a man takes his spear and kills him. It is often done by night with a candle or lantern.
Sunday evening. Drink tea at Rydale Hall with Lady Diana Fleming; nothing particular in the house, two good rooms and a charming view from the front windows.... A winding path through a grove of the only large oaks I have yet seen in Westmoreland. A rustic bridge over a rapid mountain torrent. Ascend the hill by a path cut through a natural copse wood. First station from which you view the upper cascade: it forms from this point of view two falls, through a narrow chasm amongst the rocks. The sides are finely wooded, all in the state of nature; the hand of art has here never been employed.... The path conducts him[ the traveller] to a rustic building, on opening the doors of which the most beautiful little picture imaginable bursts suddenly upon his sight. It is not the magnitude of this cascade but its character and accompaniments which render it so interesting and so deservedly admired. Figure to yourself a semi-circle, the sides of rock covered with a variety of mosses, ferns and other wild plants. In the center a fall of water dividing itself into two channels throws itself into a clear and transparent bason below, which forms the foreground of the picture. In the background and immediately above the cascade is a rustic stone bridge( Gothic) of one arch( over which the passengers and cattle passing occasionally add an additional good effect to the scenery), the whole overhung with a rich canopy of natural wood so thick as to admit very partially the rays of the light and sun....
 Monday 23 June. Very fine. After breakfast visited a waterfall at a short distance from Ambleside.... Proceeded on my way to Paterdale[ four horses required to pull up a chaise, if laden, uphill...] a very long and tedious ascent, not a tree or bush to be seen for some miles after quitting the rich and beautiful environs of Ambleside. As tedious a descent to Broader[ Brother's] Water, a small lake, where cultivation again appears....[ The character of this morning's ride is wild mountain scenery. An immense flock of sheep attended by a numerous pack of dogs and herd of shepherds, who had just driven the mountains in order to collect the sheep to be washed and shorn, added to the effect of the pastoral scenery].
The addition of a parlour and two bedrooms has made the little inn at Paterdale very comfortable.
The first appearance of Ullswater has nothing in the least striking when seen from this point of view. In the evening we took a boat on the lake and rowed with fishing rods towards the middle of it, to a rocky island. There on looking back we were most agreeably surprised, or rather astonished at the beauty of the scenery behind us. The rocky island before us as a foreground, the fine woods of oak on the right added to the noble range of mountains in the center amongst which the Dod is the most prominent feature, form a tout ensemble in point of grandeur and beauty which I have rarely seen.
 Tuesday 24 June. Our guide conducted us to Hays[ Hawes] Water. Follow the great road to Ambleside, turn off to the left.... In the evening I surveyed the environs of Paterdale. No spot can be more sequestered. The ground and fields around this small, scattered and retired village, are beautifully varied with many picturesque patches of wood and rock....
 Wednesday 25th. A hard rainfall in the night which prevented my pursuing my route to Penrith on horseback. We were obliged to send for posthorses from Penrith. The carriage road leads on the N. West side of the lake which is of a very irregular form. Pass through some beautiful woods where the masses of rock are happily intermixed..... At Penrith we found ourselves in a largish town and handsome inn, and away from all wild and mountain scenery. As I mean to return to Penrith I will say nothing about it at present.
 Thursday 26th. Day fine. Rode to Keswick 18 M. Large inclosures with stone walls and little wood. Cross a wild moor. Continual ascent and descent. On approaching Keswick is a fine range of mountains to the right and left, a chasm in them to the vale of St John on the left. A perfect Druidical circle on an eminence in a field to the left of the roadside.
 Friday 27th June. very fine. Breakfasted at Wythburn, a little public house 7 ½ miles from Keswick on the direct road to Ambleside, and a short distance from Thirlmere Water. After breakfast took a guide and ascended a steep mountain opposite the inn to a tarn called Harrap in which we had been informed, there were a great many large trout but on this( as well as on many prior occasions), we were deceived.... From this place we proceeded to another tarn in a westerly direction over a wild moor and steep ascent. This is called Blair[ Blea] tarn and is somewhat similar to Hayswater and I think nearly as large. The sides rather wet and spongy but here deep and good for fishing. The day was rather unfavorable to our sport, being too bright and insufficiently windy. I caught five trout here, about a half a pound each. Outside blackish, flesh white and not good.... From hence I directed my course back to Thirlmere. In my way found a tarn still smaller than Harrap....
 Sunday 29th June. Left Keswick on an excursion to Buttermere. The road leads on the left banks of the lake through some flourishing young woods, formerly a part of the Derwentwater Estate, now belonging to Greenwich Hospital. Pass the house now inhabited by Mr Pocklington, less grotesque in its architecture than the other two built by him. Here there is a great cascade but far inferior to Lodore. As the beauty of the waterfall entirely depends on the quantity of water with which it is supplied and, as the season has late been very dry I saw it to great disadvantage. It falls in a deep chasm between two high towering rocks, well wooded, and when full must have fine effect. A range of high crags on the left and immense fragments which have fallen down and lay scattered in the most confused and picturesque manner. They are happily described by Gray in his Tour:" The whole way down, and the road on both sides is strewed with piles of fragments, strangely thrown across each other, and of a dreadful bulk etc. The place reminds me of those passes in the Alps where the guides tell you to move with speed and say nothing lest the agitation of the air should loosen the snows above and bring down a mass that would overwhelm a caravan".
At about 4 ½ miles from Keswick enter Borrowdale where the little village of Grange with its bridge etc have a very picturesque appearance. Pass under Castle Crag, a boldly towering rock rising in the center of the valley, once its proud guardian[ On this formerly stood a castle... completely demolished by slate works which have undermined it]. Bowder Stone, an immense fragment of rock which has fallen from the mountain into the plain close to the roadside, and is balanced on its side in a very curious and picturesque manner.... Ascend by the village of Seaton on the right. Bad, rough and steep road. Descent equally bad under a lofty crag called Honister on which slate quarries are worked. Frightful to behold from the great height and dangerous situation. I was told that this quarry was the first worked in England. There are others on the opposite hill. Immense fragments of rock lye scattered on the plain beneath. Follow the banks of a clear mountain torrent to the Lake of Buttermere. In a cleft of rock on the opposite side of the lake my guide showed me the place where the Golden Eagle used to build their nests, but they have also disappeared. [ The damage done by the eagles was calculated at a lamb a day at least, besides their other food; no wonder they were destroyed....]
We found at Buttermere a small inn; what was wanting in show was amply made up to us in the cleanliness and civility of the landlords. This little inn is kept by two old people who have now one only daughter left, their sons having followed the sea service and there lost their lives. Tourists have proclaimed aloud the beauty and form of the Fair Maid of Buttermere, and with justice, for such a form, and such a face, and such a head of hair are rarely to be found even in more cultivated and civilised spots. Her face is truly Graecian, her hair of a fine dark brown, of an extraordinary length done up with great taste. She reminded me of a fine Italian beauty, both as to the form of her features and the method of dressing her hair. This little inn furnishes one double-bedded, and one single room, and one small parlor. They have no wine. We could procure no straw to litter our horses with. Notwithstanding these inconveniences we spent the night here; other wise we should not have had sufficient time to view the various beauties of this sequestered spot.
The village of Buttermere is situated exactly between the lake of the same name and that of Crummock. It does not consist of twenty families; a little vale, well wooded and watered, surrounded by lofty mountains. All seems here peaceful and tranquil but even here the grotesque forms of architecture have been exercised in a whimsical house lately built at the upper end of Buttermere Lake by an attorney from Cockermouth, but it is fortunately so placed as not to offend the eye in the general view of the lake and country.
In the evening we walked about two miles over stoney and wet moor to see a cascade situated under the lofty Mountain Mellbreak on the left side of Crumock Lake.... It is far superior to any others that I have yet seen, and one of those pleasing objects which, like Gordale Scar, take the traveller by surprize and wrap him up in wonder and admiration.... It is however difficult of access; the easiest mode is certainly by a boat from the lower end of Crummock Lake.... About half a mile from Buttermere on the left of the road to Crummock on a rocky knoll covered with copse wood is a very advantageous station for viewing the two lakes and their surrounding mountains.... High Stile, Red Pike and Melbreak on one side with Grasmere on the other produce as fine an amphitheatre of mountains as any in Cumberland and together with the general fine tranquillity and solitude of this little vale, the want of numerous habitations with which many of the other lakes are crowded, so render these lakes as interesting as anything I have yet seen.
 Monday 30th June. Left Buttermere and proceeded on the right bank of Crummock Lake. This lake is about four miles long. The mountains around it are more barren than about Buttermere.... I again crossed the Cocker and entered the beautiful Vale of Lorton. What a sudden change of scenery! Adieu to crags, torrents, lakes and precipices. An extensive well-wooded and cultivated valley watered by[ the] R. Crocker with several neat farmhouses happily interspersed, now presents itself.... Pass through the Vale of Embledon which after that of Lorton does not deserve notice. First view of Bassenthwaite Water not striking, more so on descending to its shores.... As a sheet of water I have seen none equal to Bassenthwaite-- being of a straighter form and less intersected with promontories etc.
[ As nearly as I could guess I think this morning's ride must have been about 14 miles, the whole road good. Very little wheat is grown in this country. Instead of barley they cultivate a grain called bigg; it differs from barley in having four rows of spikes instead of two. A fine sort of oat is also sown called the potatoe oat.... They also have a singular method of sowing their turnips in drills or ridges which are howed and earthed up like peas or potatoes....]
In the evening I had a most delicious ride back to Keswick on the western banks of the lake. On the opposite side you see lofty Skiddaw, illumined with the western sun. The shores neatly cultivated and ornamented with several good houses etc. In short the whole presents a most pleasing scene of wild and cultivated nature. A valley of about 4 miles separates the lakes of Bassenthwaite and Derwent Water and in high floods they are completely united, leaving the higher grounds as islands....
It now remains for me to give some description of Keswick and its lake which takes the name Derwentwater from the unhappy family who formerly lived here and whose estates were forfeited to the Crown. This water is of a rounder shape than Windermere or Ullswater and on that account gives you more the idea of a lake. It is of such a size that you can command it all with the eye. Its length is about 3 ½ miles; its banks are more equally beautiful and varied than any I have yet seen. In Windermere, Ullswater, Bassenthwaite and Crummock the lower ends of their lakes fall off much in point of beauty; the mountains sink, the views become tame when compared with those that the upper ends present. But Derwentwater being backed by the noble mountains, Skiddaw and Saddleback, has not this defect. A variety of good stations have been mentioned by Mr West in his Guide and by Mr Crossthwaite in his maps. Indeed they are so many and so varied that on following the windings of the lake you cannot go amiss.... There are several islands in this lake....[ A curious phenomenon makes its appearance at times in this lake: floating islands which without any apparent cause suddenly make their appearance and as suddenly depart. One of these islands measured 180 yard square....]
The appearance of this beautiful lake has been much hurt by the variety of uncouth buildings which Mr Pocklington has erected in different parts of it: no less than three houses, two of which are placed in the most conspicuous situations on high ground and being high themselves have still a worse effect. The one he now inhabits near Loudore being lower and backed with wood is less bad. There is a great contrast between these and the little retired villa of Lord William Gordon which is built on the ground with one storey only, in a sequestered bay and so much enveloped with wood that you can scarcely discern it. To him belong all the fine woods on this side of the lake. It commands a delicious view of the lake without itself being commanded. In St Herberts Island a rustic summerhouse has been built and a walk made round it, but the trees are here too think and too many firs. It is impossible to be tired with the beauties of this lake, and the environs of Keswick are chearful and afford a great variety of fine rides and walks.
In short Keswick is a place where every tourist to the lakes should fix his headquarters for some days. The inns are good; there are good horses, intelligent guides, safe boats, and the lake affords ample amusement to those who are fond of fishing in all its branches. In a wet day the museum kept by Crossthwaite and the guide Hutton will fill up some of the traveller's time, where he will see collected good specimens of the different mineral and natural productions of this country besides other antiquities and rare curiosities. In short I know of no place where a few days or even weeks may be spent more pleasantly.
 Wednesday 2nd July. In the evening left Keswick and returned by the same road I came to Penrith; there are many things at Penrith and in the neighborhood to arrest the attention of the curious traveller, and the excellent accommodations he will meet with at Buchanan's House will make amends for the dullness of the town and its immediate environs.
 Thursday 3rd July. The first object of my curiosity was Brougham castle.... It is a large, massive ruin built generally with the red stone of the country, but some of the walls have been faced with one of a greyer tint. Its architecture bears the marks of its having been repaired at several different times-- of the strong fort and of the fortified mansion.
Return to Emont[ Eamont] Bridge by Brougham Hall, an old-fashioned house on an eminence commanding a fine view. A fine avenue of oak trees. On the left hand of this road, between the bridge and the village, are the remains of two ancient circles. A great part of the first has been destroyed by digging gravel; the rampart of this is very low. Nearer the village is another circular intrenchment, vulgarly called Arthur's Round Table. Here the ditch is deeper and the area or platform is raised higher. Instead of going back to Penrith through the village turn off to the left, and at a short distance from the common on the right you will see a gentle eminence covered with wood. Here you find another antiquity much more curious then either of the other two circles. It goes by the name of Mayborough and is also a circle but much larger than either of the other two and different in its construction. The spot is naturally an eminence of a round form. The inside area has been enclosed apparently by an immense quantity of stones collected and heaped up, for there is no appearance of cement or mortar having been used. Besides, the stones from their circular and even appearance appear to have been brought there from the bed of the river. In the center stands a large block of unhewn stone.
To what purpose these circular areas were appropriated antiquaries have not been able to determine. They may probably be the works of the Romans as we know they had stations at old Penrith and a supposed one at Brougham Castle; and these may have been used for their games. By the stones at Mayborough we might also be led to suppose that this monument belonged to the Druids, but I do not remember any instance of their circles having been fenced in. Perhaps it might have been used as a circus for chariot races and the stones were the metae or goals....
 Thursday 4th July. The objects of this morning's excursion were the Nunnery and Druidical circle at LIttle Salkeld.... The Nunnery is about two miles distant; it belongs to Mr Bamber who married the lady who was the owner of this place. Its beauty arises from the singularity of its grounds. The first walk called the Upper leads through a thick and natural wood to the banks of the River Eden which here has a rapid course over a rocky bed of stone. The rocks, fine birch trees, fern etc are quite in character with the river etc., etc.... The walks have been ingeniously turned along this narrow pass by numerous flights of steps, by excavating the rocks etc., etc. There are many fine masses of rock, the whole wooded and left judiciously in a state of nature. It derived its name probably from having been formerly the scite of a convent and surely no place was better adapted for solitude and retirement. [ On asking a young raw Irish gardener how long it had had the name of Nunnery he told me that nuns had been kept there in former times]....
I returned to Kirkoswald, refreshed my horses and proceeded to Little Salkeld. Here on a lofty eminence, commanding an extensive view, are the remains of a very large Druidicial circle, vulgarly called Long Meg and her Daughters. According to Hutchinson its circumference forms a circle of 350 paces and the number of stones 67. On walking round once only I counted them-- 69. Many are quite flat. They are different sizes, all unhewn and in a state of nature. On taking the point of it with my compass I found Hutchinson incorrect in placing the single stone to the south, whereas it stands nearly west. Two other stones project also beyond the circle. I wonder it has so long remained unhurt as half of it is in a piece of cultivated corn land and intersected by a fence wall, the other half on a common. This is certainly is a very curious piece of antiquity and deserves notice. Its size appears to me more considerable than Stonehenge. It can be seen without inconvenience as a chaise can go up close to it....
 Saturday 5th July. This morning I rode to Shap, 11 miles... to Lowther, the seat of Lord Lonsdale. Grounds laid out in the old-fashioned style, finely wooded. the old seat was burnt down; one small wing of red stone remains. Great preparations have been made of timber and other materials to rebuild it, but it is not yet begun. Lord Lonsdale has shown great public spirit in erecting extensive buildings for manufactories etc, etc. Has built a whole village on a neat and regular plan, but either for want of population, present encouragement or some other cause these new buildings are mostly uninhabited and bear a most melancholy appearance. The carpet manufactory has now only one hand employed in it. It deserves the notice of the traveller from the extreme beauty of the workmanship; the colors vye with the celebrated Gobelin tapestry. An immense number of those carpets remain packed up in boxes intended for the new house which the new owner will probably never build. They are all worked by hand and in one piece. One loom is supposed to be the largest in England....
Shap is a long village of one street, houses dispersed intermixed with trees... on the left of the great road leading to Kendall over the moors is a most curious and singular piece of antiquity. It consists of a long avenue of large stones, placed at different intervals and extending near two miles. One end seems to have terminated in this common, as the avenue closes with a row of stones placed in semi-circular form. This end stands nearly south and from thence the avenue takes a curve inclining to the west. The line of these stones may be traced to the village of Rasgill where I saw one of them. Many of those lying in corn and meadow lands have been blown up and removed. Enough however are left to ascertain the direction they took. The stone resembles red granite. They are all unhewn. I have not as yet heard any account given of this singular piece of antiquity.
 Sunday 6 July. After breakfast visted Hawes Water, distant six or seven miles from Shap.... The upper part is shut in with bold and lofty mountains as is the case with the generality of lakes I have seen is by far the most picturesque part. This lake will well bear seeing after the others, although its beauties are less talked of because less known. The farmhouses are dispersed about in a very picturesque manner sheltered mostly with some fine trees around them. The two opposite banks of the lake are well contrasted: that on the left has a fine natural wood, that on the right patches of cultivation. A picturesque waterfall on the right.... Descended into another vale watered by the Lowther river. Here was situated the Abbey of Shap, the greatest part of which is gone to decay. One large square, high tower remains with the western window, tall Gothic. On the side of this tower are windows temp. Henry 8, and no part of it denotes high antiquity. This abbey is situated on the banks of the Lowther and from the ruins of its foundations must have been a considerable building....
 Monday 7th July. After breakfast rode to the foot of Ullswater, to Dacre, and back to Penrith. passed by the old mansion house belonging to Lord Lonsdale called Stockbridge hall, remains of a tower and a large bow window.... The castle at Penrith stands on an eminence at a short distance from town. Is a square building of a stone as red as brick which gives it a very heavy appearance. Its architecture is equally heavy with its color and by no means an interesting ruin....
In the evening proceeded on my journey to Appleby; road good, country very dull.... The usual post-stage at Crackenthorp, a single retired inn on the right of the road, two miles short of Appleby which, though the county town, does not furnish post horses. Having nothing to see at Crackenthorp and much at Appleby I went there and found very good accommodations at the Kings Head Inn[ the innkeeper means to take out a licence for post horses] where Lord Lonsdale has lately added much to the house. Appleby has a singular and novel appearance: it consists chiefly of one long and wide street. The church at the Bottom closes the perspective and the castle at the summit. The ascent is rather steep. Near the top and also near the bottom are two stone columns. On the base of the former is the inscription:'' Retain your loyalty-preserve your rights.'' The appearance of the street is much injured by a wretched town hall and some dirty shambles erected in the middle of it. The castle presents a mixture of ancient and modern architecture; I could observe only one old round tower annexed to it.... Adjoining the inhabited part of the castle is an ancient square building with four low turrets at each end, vulgarly called Caesar's Tower. It is built on an eminence, partly surrounded by a deep foss. It bears the marks of great antiquity.... The church is a Gothic building and contains two monuments of the Clifford family.... In a wall opposite to the grammar school are preserved several Roman inscriptions found in the neighborhood, but amongst them are several of a modern date, the invention and handiwork of one Reginald Bambrigg, a quondam schoolmaster here. Appleby is supposed to have been a Roman station. the banks immediately round the River Eden are well wooded[ We drew a net in the river and caught several trout, all white but of a bright color outwardly. One of 7 lb. had been lately caught in this river].
 Tuesday 8 July In the evening rode to Brough.... Turned off on the right before I came to Brough to see the ruins of the castle.... Towards the west a square tower, apparently of higher antiquity than the other part of the building and very similar to that at Appleby. Some parts of it, particularly a window on the southern side bear the marks of Norman architecture. There was formerly an inscription over the southern entrance('... repaired by Lady Ann Clifford... 1659').

