Kochi is a beautiful city situated on the Western Coast of India facing the Arabian Sea, and rightfully called the 'Queen of the Arabian Sea'. It has a rich network of backwaters and is the culture and heritage centre of Kerala. Cochin known as the Queen of Arabian Sea, is the Commercial Capital of Kerala. An enormous potential exists in Kerala, especially Cochin for the use of Information Technology. There are a number of industries, a large number of export produces, 100% literacy, highly developed social structure, and well laid-out communication facilities and transport infrastructure. These and a few other factors provide enormous scope for the growth of IT industry. The Kerala Government also recently announced an IT policy and created a separate IT department under the Chief Minister to promote IT in the state in a big way.
 
Cochin history
It is not known exactly how the name Kochi originated. But many theories exist. Some historians believe that Cochin is a modified form of the word 'Cochazhi' which in Malayalam means 'small sea' 

Though Cochin had been an important roadstead in days gone by, it became a natural harbor only when nature decreed it so. Muziris (present-day Kodungalloor on the mouth of the Periyar River), 40 km north of Cochin, was the center of trade with ancient Rome in the products like pepper and pearls, fine silks, cotton, muslin, honey, oil, betel, tortoise shell, cinnamon leaf, black pepper, ginger grass, and indigo. For centuries, Cochin was the battleground of European powers for the mastery of the lucrative trade of the Indian west coast. 

The fortunes of political powers in Cochin were dictated by pepper. The Portuguese were the first to come in. Two years later, the adventurous mariner, the legendary Vasco da Gama himself landed in Cochin. The Portuguese erected a fort for the protection of their factory. Fort Manuel, or Manuel Kotta, named after the King of Portugal, was the first fortress constructed by the Europeans in India. 

To the Portuguese must go the credit for the extensive scientific cultivation of coconut, ginger, and pepper, backbone of Kerala's economy today. Tobacco, cashew nut, and fruit cultivation were also introduced. The pineapple, for instance, is still called prithichakka in Malayalam, meaning Portuguese jackfruit. They were also responsible for today's burgeoning trade in coir. 

The Dutch, full of energy and zeal, were next to enter the scene and succeeded in throwing out the Portuguese very soon. Helped by a laissez-faire policy and a self-stipulated dictum of "at least a 100% profit," Cochin saw a great resurgence of trade.
