Do I need a visa for travel to Peru?

Generally speaking Peru welcomes foreign visitors with open arms, allowing the majority of tourists to stay for a maximum of up to 183 days without restriction. There are some exceptions to the rule, which are listed below. If you need to obtain a visa, there is an application process that you need to follow. Paul Jones, a Peru travel expert looks answers the question – Do I need a visa for travel to Peru?

Please note that this information was correct at time of publishing. Please double check with your local Peruvian Embassy for all the latest entry requirements.

Who needs a visa for travel to Peru?
Residents of countries that don’t need a visa to travel to Peru.

If you are a citizen of the following countries, travelling on a government issued passport from the same country, you do not need to apply for a visa in advance. On arrival in Lima’s Jorge Chavez International Airport you will be required to fill out an Andean Immigration Card and you will be granted up to a maximum stay of 183 days. See notes on the Andean Immigration Card.

Citizens of: United States of America, Canada, Mexico, United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Israel, Japan, Germany, Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Russia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal & Switzerland.

Residents of countries that do need a visa to travel to Peru.

Residents of the following country, travelling on a government issued passport from the countries listed below are required to apply for a visa before travelling to Peru. See the section on applying for visas in advance, and the list of Peruvian Embassies in your country.

If you are living in the USA on a green card, but are not a citizen of the USA, you will need to apply for a visa in advance at a local Peruvian consulate.

Citizens of: All African countries, excluding South Africa, India, Pakistan & China.

What you need to do on arrival in Peru
The Andean Immigration Card & Customs Declarations

This applies to all foreign visitors arriving in to Peru. On arrival at Lima’s international airport you will be required to fill in two documents. The first is an Andean Immigration Card and the second is a Customs Declaration, both of which are usually provided on your flight over. The Andean Immigration Card is a really important document, which you must keep safe for your entire trip. You will be required to show the card when you depart the country, and failure to do so could result in a delay or small fine. Your Customs Declaration is a standard declaration, similar to those requested by most countries on arrival. Please note if you enter Peru with more than US$ 10,000 per person in cash, you will need to justify the reason in your customs declaration.

Proof of funds and onward travel

On very rare occasions you may be requested to show proof of funds and/or proof of onward travel. Proof of funds can be shown in cash, a recent bank statement or more simply a current credit card. You need to be able to show that you have sufficient funds to support yourself for your entire time in Peru; US$ 25 – 30 per day is more than sufficient. Proof of onward travel is also sometimes requested, and can be proven with an onward airline or bus ticket.

Obtaining a Peruvian visa from your local Peruvian Embassy
Should you need to apply for a visa to Peru before you travel, you will need to contact your nearest Peruvian Embassy and make a visa application. Normally this needs to be done in your home country, however if you have a green card to live in the USA you may apply for the visa from your nearest Embassy in the US. Allow sufficient time to apply for your visa as applications may take several weeks.

During the application process you will need to provide the following information:

1)      Fill out the obligatory visa application form.

2)      Attend a personal interview.

3)      Show a valid passport.

4)      If living in the USA (but not resident) you will need to show proof of a valid green card and an I-95 form.

5)      Round trip airline ticket (can be electronic).

6)      Proof of hotel bookings, or travel agents itinerary of your trip.

7)      2 recent passport photos.

8)      Proof of sufficient funds for your trip, recent bank statement.

List of Peruvian Embassies
United States of America

General Peruvian Consulate
1700 Massachusetts Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C.20036
Tel: 202 8339860 / 8339869
Website: www.consuladoperu.com

Local consulates: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Hartford, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Paterson & San Francisco.

Canada

General Peruvian Consulate
10 St. Mary St. Suite 301 Toronto, Ontario. M4Y 1P9
Tel:  416-963-9696
Website: www.conperutoronto.com

Local consulates: Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec & Vancouver

United Kingdom

52 Sloane Street, London SW1X 9SP
Tel: 020 7235 1917
Website: www.peruembassy-uk.com

China

Sanlitun Bangong Lou 1-91 Beijing 100600
Tel: (86-10) 65323719 / 65323477

India

C-1/24 Vasant Vihar New Delhi – 110057 India
Tel: (91-11) 26141154 y 26141155

This article ‘Do I need a visa for travel to Peru?’ was brought to you by the Peru travel information experts at The Only Peru Guide; the best free online Peru Guide. For further information on our range of Peru vacation packages contact a Peru travel expert today.
