'Roman Gladiator' Australian soldiers in Afghanistan caught playing golf and sunbathing

Australian soldiers in Afghanistan have been caught sunbathing in tactical positions, hitting golf balls into Taliban territory and greeting helicopters "in thongs (flip-flops) and T-shirts".

By Jonathan Pearlman in Sydney 2:51PM GMT 14 Mar 2013

A senior army commander, Lieutenant-Colonel Chris Smith, has lashed out at the behaviour of his troops, saying they expected to be treated as "Roman gladiators" and had perceptions of war based on movies and computer games.

In a report based on his six months commanding a mentoring task force, Colonel Smith documented various cases of ill-discipline and skylarking in the battlefield.

The report, written last year, was distributed by the Chief of Army, Lieutenant General David Morrison, to serve as a wake-up call to the troops.

It said there were "examples throughout Australia's commitment in Afghanistan of soldiers sunbathing in tactical positions sitting in chairs and facing inwards in enemy areas, listening to music in tactical positions," according to Fairfax Media.

There were cases of "kicking footballs in tactical positions, doing physical training in enemy areas, standing around bonfires in proximity to the green zone by night, and greeting helicopters at landing zones in thongs and T-shirts". Other soldiers were described "hitting golf balls from overwatch positions into the green zone [irrigated fields in which Taliban militants roam]".

Colonel Smith also said in the report that younger soldiers were spoilt, needy and had a "distorted and fanciful perception of wartime soldiering" based on "stereotypical images of special forces soldiers, and characters from films and computer games".

"The hyperbole surrounding the contribution of Australian soldiers in Afghanistan makes the soldiers feel entitled to be treated almost as Roman gladiators," he said.

"They give the impression that they expect everyone, including their superiors, to lavish them with attention and unregulated time when between tasks."

Lieutenant General Morrison said he declassified and released the report because the military needed to be self-critical and ready to expose its own shortcomings.

"An army that believes its own press based on the fantastic work that our men and women have been doing in Afghanistan set themselves up for failure in the future," he said.

"We have got to be the hardest critics of our own performance – that's what the nation expects of us." The report was not released publicly by Defence but was cited in a submission to a parliamentary inquiry by a defence analyst and former solider, James Brown, from the Lowy Institute.

He welcomed Colonel Smith's frank observations and criticised the military for tending to conceal such reports.

"I pointed to this report as an example of some of the information that's out there that's just not being seen by the public or the parliament," he told ABC Radio.

Australia has about 1500 troops in a southern Afghan province, Oruzgan, but most of the contingent is due to withdraw by the end of this year.
