position occupied by my command from June 10 to June 30 will be observed by referring to map Numbers 4,* where they are marked A, B, C, D, E, and F. In accordance to Special Field Orders, Numbers 56, Department and Army of the Tennessee, dated July 1, I sent the division of Brigadier General Morgan L. Smith, at 4 o'clock on the morning of the 2d, by a road leading in rear of the army, to the Sandtown road, and thence by the Sandtown road to the support of general Schofield, whose headquarters were at Cheney's house, at the intersection of the Marietta and Powder Springs and Sandtown roads. On the 2nd of July, by virtue of Special Field Orders, Numbers 57, Department and Army of the Tennessee, of that date, I was directed to pull out of the position held by the First and Fourth Divisions of my command, as soon as the left of the column of Major General G. M. Dodge had field out, and march to the Sandtown road, thence down it, following Major-General Dodge's command, to the forks of the road leading to Ruff's Mill and Widow Mitchell's, where I was to halt and act as a reserve. While the general movements were being performed by the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Corps, before daylight, my skirmishers, through their vigilance, discovered the enemy's evacuation of Kenesaw Mountain, and advanced and took possession of the crest of that mountain at daylight. I was then verbally directed by Major-General McPherson to move my command (the First and Fourth Division) by the left flank, passing Kenesaw Mountain, and to enter Marietta ont he south side of the mountain. I caused the advance to be made rapidly, with skirmishers thrown well forward,and on the flanks of my command, and entered Marietta before the cavalry, which had previously been ordered, had arrived. We captured 200 pioneers before reaching Marietta. At that place I disposed my command in the most advantageous position, covering the town, and remained in camp until 9 a. m. of the 4th July, when, by direction of Major-General Sherman, dated on the morning of July 4, I proceeded with my command, leaving the Twenty-fifth Iowa, Colonel Stone commanding, as provost-guard in the town, by way of Cheney's house, and reported to Major-General McPherson on the right of the army. South of Cheney's house, on the Sandtown road, I was joined by the Second Division of my command. On the 5th and 6th slight advances were made. On the 7th I occupied the line held by the Twentieth Army Corps on Nickajack Creek, very near the banks of the Chattahoochee River, relieving the troops of that command with the troops of my entire command. I placed General Harrow's (Fourth) division on the right, connecting with the left of the Seventeenth Army Corps, General Osterhaus' (First) division in the center, and General Morgan L. Smith's (Second) division on the left, connecting with the right of the Cumberland Army. (See map. Numbers 5.*) This position was maintained, with occasional skirmishing and artillery practice, by my command until the 12th, when, in pursuance of Special Field Orders, Numbers 66, Department and Army of the Tennessee, I started my troops at 5 p. m. to the bridge across the Chattahoochee, near Roswell Factory, and moved by way of Marietta, camping a few miles south of that place, on the night of the 12th. My troops passed through Marietta on the morning of the 13th, and the advanced division of my command reached Roswell that evening. The other two divisions I directed to camp a short distance from Roswell, and on the 15th, in accordance, with special instructions from Major-General McPherson, commanding department, I moved my command across the Chattahoochee, on the bridge which had just been completed and took a position on the left of General Dodge's command, already in position.

On the 17th of July, in pursuance of Special Field Orders, Numbers 69, Department and Army of the Tennessee, dated July 16, I moved from the position just referred to, at 5.30 o'clock, in advance of the Left Wing, Sixteenth Army Corps, on the road leading to Cross Keys, until I reached Providence Church, when I moved on a left-hand road (called sometimes the Decatur road) until I reached Nancy's Creek where I took up position on each side of the road in line of battle. At this point slight skirmishing with the enemy's cavalry took place, and they were driven by my skirmishers across the creek. On the morning of the 18th at 5 o'clock, under Special Field Orders, Numbers 70, Department and Army of the Tennessee, I started my command on the Decatur road and moved to the Widow Rainey's thence on the Stone Mountain road, by Blake's Mill, to Bowman's [Browning's?] Court-House at the intersection of the Stone Mountain and Lawrenceville and Decatur roads, where I was directed to hold my command in readiness to assist Brigadier-General Garrard, if he should require it, in his efforts to break the Decatur railroad. Subsequently to the issuing of the order referred to, Major-General McPherson directed me to move, with a part of my command, directly to the railroad, if possible, and break it that day. I accordingly moved forward, with a part of the Second Division, and struck the railroad near Stone Mountain, and effectually destroyed it for a considerable distance. Major John R. Hotaling, senior aide-de-camp on my staff, with my escort company, numbering seventy men, was sent out to protect the right flank of this detachment of my command while it was moving in the direction of the road. While out he conceived the idea of penetrating to the road with this little force and destroy what part of it he could between the point the infantry were to strike it and Decatur. He moved accordingly struck the road, and burned two culverts,and destroyed a considerable portion of the track. He is entitled to much credit for this fearless action, as he inflicted considerable damage to the enemy, and at the same time protected the body of troops from surprise which was moving against the road. After rendering the destruction of the road at the point where I struck it as complete as possible under the circumstances, I moved my command to the vicinity of Harrison's [Henderson's?] Mill, and placed them in position for the night.

In pursuance of Special Field Orders, Numbers 71, from Department and Army of the Tennessee, I moved at 5 o'clock July 19,in light fighting order, on the Decatur road, in the direction of Decatur, under orders to strike the railroad at the nearest point on my route and tear up the track, burn the ties, and make the destruction complete and effectual. My command struck the railroad at the town of Decatur, six miles east of Atlanta, and commenced the work of destruction, which in every respect fully complied with the tenor of my instructions. My command bivouacked on the north side of Decatur on the night of July 19. In accordance with Special Field Orders, Numbers 72, from Department and Army of the Tennessee, dated July 19, I moved my command at 5 a.m. July 20 on the direct road to Atlanta, leaving all my wagons, except my ammunition wagons and ambulances, in the vicinity and to the north of Decatur. The division of General Morgan L. Smith had the advance, and soon after the head of the column had moved out of Decatur, his skirmishers met those of the enemy and drove them steadily before them. The enemy would occasionally use artillery from commanding positions on the road, which in no wise impeded my advance. In the afternoon Captain De Gress, commanding Company H, First Illinois Light Artillery (20-pounder Parrott guns), having secured a position from which he could see a part of the city, apparently two miles and a half distant, immediately placed his battery in position and directed his fire toward the place. Several of his shots were observed by the signal officer of the corps to strike some buildings in the town. These were acknowledge to be the first shots from the army which had entered the city of Atlanta. At night I placed my command in position for defense across the railroad, fronting Atlanta at the supposed distance of two miles and a half from the city. During the night a temporary defensive line was constructed, and I caused a few pieces of artillery to be placed in position. Almost the entire divisions of Generals Harrow and Woods (late Osterhaus) were held in reserve. The 21st passed in slight advances and demonstrations on the enemy to enable General Blair's command to join me on the left, and General Dodge's command to join me on the right. During the day I brought into position Harrow's and Woods' divisions on the right and left of Smith's division, respectively, holding a necessary reserve from each division. My command was now in position across the Decatur railroad with the center of my command, Morgan L. Smith's division, crossing the road. The situation of my command will be seen by reference to map Numbers 6,* herewith inclosed. The position was strengthened by earth-works, head-logs, &c, during the night of the 21st. On the morning of the 22nd it was discovered that the enemy had abandoned his line of works in our immediate front, and I advanced a portion of my command at once and took possession of the line, and directed General Smith to advance a section of artillery to a position in front of the abandoned line, which I pointed out to him on the Atlanta road near the railroad, and to advance with it two regiments of infantry to support it. This disposition was hardly completed before I received a written communication from Major-General McPherson, dated at 6 a.m. July 22, informing me that it was the supposition of General Sherman that the enemy had given up Atlanta and were retiring in the direction of East Point, and directing me to put my command in pursuit, passing to the south and east of Atlanta. This order was not put in execution from the fact that the enemy about this time commenced demonstrations in my front, which led me to believe that he had not abandoned Atlanta. At about 10 a.m. this belief was confirmed by a report that the enemy were moving in heavy force around the left flank of the army, formed by General Blair's (Seventeenth) corps, with evident intention of striking us in flank and rear. As soon as the report reached him, General McPherson rode at once toward the left of the army to ascertain correctly the truth of the report, parting with me in the vicinity of the white house on the railroad. The enemy soon developed his intentions by making a most desperate attack on the rear and flank of the Seventeenth Army Corps. In the midst of the first onset of the enemy, news was brought me of the probable death of General McPherson, which was soon confirmed. In a few moments, I was directed by verbal orders of General Sherman, commanding the armies, to at once assume command of the army, assuring me at the same time that whatever assistance I might need would be furnished me. Acting upon these instructions, I turned over the Fifteenth Army Corps, then slightly engaged, to Brigadier General Morgan L. Smith, commander of the Second Division, and assumed command of the Department and Army of the Tennessee, as directed.

I respectfully refer you to the report of division commanders, herewith inclosed, for particulars of the engagement of the corps while I had the honor to command the department, inasmuch as I find that General Smith failed to make report of the action and subsequent operations of the corps while under his command. These reports show that the command maintained in every respect its well-earned reputation for gallantry, and nobly sustained under the guidance of General Smith and division commanders Generals Woods, Lightburn, and Harrow, commanding First, Second, and Fourth Divisions, respectively, the valor of Federal arms. About 3 o'clock in the afternoon the enemy by a most desperate assault broke our line and captured the battery of De Gress on the right of the Second Division. As soon as I learned the fact I, as department commander, ordered that it be retaken at all hazards, and General Woods, commanding First Division, at once disposed his command for that purpose. In the mean time the guns of another battery were turned on the horses of the captured battery for the purpose of preventing the enemy from removing the guns. This was effectual, and General Woods soon led the advance, which retook the guns and the position our troops were compelled to abandon. General Woods displayed in this action the greatest judgment and skill. For the particulars of the recapture of the battery, I refer you to General Woods' report, herewith inclosed. At another point of the lines, situated immediately across the rail and dirt roads the enemy made a sudden and desperate assault, compelling a portion of the Second Division to give way, and captured 2 guns of Battery A, First Illinois Light Artillery, which they succeeded in carrying away, although under the personal direction of General Smith, the line was almost immediately retaken. The reason the enemy gained an advantage over this part of my line may be explained by the fact that I was compelled to weaken that portion of the line by the withdrawal of Colonel Martin's brigade to fulfill a request to furnish General Dodge re-enforcements, who was at this time severely engaged with the enemy on the left flank and rear of the army. The division of General Harrow, during this time, was desperately engaged with the enemy. He caused some of his guns to be reversed so as to bear upon the enemy coming up in rear of the Seventeenth Corps. General Harrow's dispositions during the day entitle him to much credit. The fighting along the entire line of the corps was of the most desperate character, often being hand-to-hand. The troops could not have acted more gallantly or behaved better.

The losses of the corps were reported to be on that day, 118 killed, 414 wounded, 535 missing; aggregate, 1,067. The corps captured 481 prisoners, and buried over 400 dead bodies in front of their line.

At night-fall the Fifteenth Army Corps was in possession of all the ground, and as far advanced as it had been at any time previous. The troops engaged against the corps on this date was ascertained to be Hood's old corps, commanded by Cheatham. The position was strengthened and maintained until the 26th, when General Smith was directed by me from department headquarters to place General Woods' division in the new line of works, which had been constructed with a view to the withdrawal of the army, and to follow, with his remaining troops, the corps of General Blair, to a new position to be taken up, on the extreme right of the army. As soon as the Second and Fourth Divisions had filed past the works occupied by the First Division, it was directed to draw out and follow the corps to the new position. General Smith, with the command, reached the position he was directed to arrive at in proper time on the 27th of July. On the morning of the 28th of July, having been relieved from the command of the department by the appointment of General Howard, I reassumed command of my old corps, and returned General Smith to the command of the Second Division.

I here desire to thank General Smith, and the officers and soldiers under him, while in command of the corps, for the gallant manner in which they acted during all the time I was removed from them. General Smith has my especial thanks for the manner in which he conducted the command.

Immediately after resuming command of the corps, commenced to move it into the position assigned it, on the right of the Seventeenth Corps, and extreme right of the army, with Woods' division on the left Harrow's in the center, and Smith's on the right. My command was thus moving forward in line of battle when the skirmishers became very actively engaged, and just as my command had gained the ridge upon which was situated Ezra Chapel, the enemy suddenly and with the greatest fury assaulted the right and center of my line. The troops had not had a moment to construct even the rudest defenses. The position we occupied, however, at the moment of attack was one of the most favorable that could have been chosen by us, it being the crest of a continuous ridge, in front of the greatest portion of which a good and extensive fire line was opened. The enemy moved forward rapidly and in good order, evidently intending to and confidently believing they would break our lines at the first onset, which happily they did not do, nor even compel a single portion of it to waver, but all stood firm alike, and repelled the assault handsomely, after about one hour's terrific fighting, in which the enemy's loss was greater than ours in the ratio of 10 to 1. The enemy soon reformed again, and made a desperate assault, which was repeated four successive times with like result of the first. During temporary lulls in the fighting, which did not at any time exceed from three to five minutes, the men would bring together logs and sticks to shield themselves from the bullets of the enemy in the next assault. The engagement lasted from 11.30 a.m. until darkness compelled a cessation. The enemy used one battery of artillery. We used none whatever. It was an open field fight, in which the enemy exceeded us in numerical strength, and we exceeded him in determination and spirit to continue the contest. During the engagement I received from Major-General Blair two regiments of infantry, under command of Colonel (now Brigadier-General) Belknap, and four regiments from General Dodge, under command of Lieutenant-Colonel Phillips, in all about 1,000 men. These troops were received at a time when I much needed them, and under the skillful management of the officers who commanded them, acted gallantly until the battle was ended.

Major-Generals Blair and Dodge have my warmest thanks for the promptness with which they sent me the re-enforcements mentioned upon my request. Officers and men behaved alike gallantly and heroically; they could not have displayed more courage nor determination not to yield. Had they shown less, they would have been driven from their position, and the enemy would have become the victors. Brigadier-Generals Woods, M. L. Smith, and Harrow, division commanders, are entitled to equal credit for gallant conduct and skill in repelling the many and desperate assaults of the enemy.

My losses were 50 killed, 439 wounded, and 73 missing. Aggregate, 562. General Harrow's division captured 5 battle-flags from the enemy. Between 1,500 and 2,000 muskets were captured, and 106 prisoners (not including 73 wounded). Over 600 of the enemy's dead were buried in my front. A large number were supposed to be carried away during the night as the enemy did not withdraw until nearly daylight. The enemy's loss in this battle could not, in my judgment, have been less than 6,000 or 7,000. Rebel papers subsequently read admit their loss very heavy, and say the fighting was the most desperate of the campaign.

During the night, by my direction, the strongest defensive line that could be established was completed, and the next day (the enemy having in the night retired beyond the reach of my fire) was occupied in burying the enemy's dead and removing the wounded from the field to the hospitals in the rear.

From prisoners I have learned that the assault was made with Hardee's and Lee's (late Hood's) corps entire.

From the 29th of July to the 3rd of August the command was advanced by swinging the right around a distance of one mile, intrenching two intermediate lines. The Fourteenth Corps, from the Cumberland Army, having been sent to the right, I caused the right of Wood's division to connect with its left, thus straightening my line, which now fronted in the direction of Atlanta, east-southeast. On the 3rd of August General Harrow, wishing to advance his line to the ridge upon which the enemy's skirmish line was intrenched, organized a portion of his command, which, under his direction, moved so rapidly forward, and with so little demonstration, that he surprised the entire line of skirmishers and captured them all. This maneuver was highly creditable to General Harrow and to the officers and soldiers who were engaged in it. The number of prisoners captured in this assault, which though very short, was 83. The Second Division assisted General Harrow in this movement, moving the left of its line in conjunction with him and capturing that part of the skirmish line in its front with 5 prisoners. The losses of the two divisions were, in the aggregate, 92 during the entire days' operations.

After the lines of my command had been straightened, with Brigadier-General Harrow's (Fourth) division forming the left, and connecting with the right of the Seventeenth Corps, Brigadier-General Lightburn's division (late M. L. Smith's division) the center, and Brigadier-General Woods' division the right, connecting with the left of the Fourteenth Army Corps (as shown in the map, Numbers 6*), only the usual skirmishing and artillery practice was indulged in up to the 26th of August, except, on the 10th day of August, I directed General Woods to advance his line on the right, so as to gain possession of the ridge in his front, the last intervening ridge between his line and that of the enemy. General Woods organized his command accordingly and moved forward, engaging the enemy's skirmishers immediately soon capturing the line, with about 60 prisoners. His loss was inconsiderable which was attributable to his skillful management of the troops assigned to take the position. He made his lodgment secure and connected with the right of the Second Division throwing his skirmishers forward in advance of the line captured. On the 4th of August Brigadier General M. L. Smith, commander of the Second Division on account of disability arising from a wound received at Chickasaw Bayou, Miss. was compelled, by the advice of his medical officer, to apply for leave of absence, which was granted, and the command of the division then devolved upon General Lightburn, a brave and good officer, who retained command until the assignment of Brigadier General W. B. Hazen August 17, who is at present the commander: General Lightburn, on the 23rd of August, received leave of absence on account of wound received in the head while in the performance of duty.

On the 15th day of August Major General P. J. Osterhaus having returned from leave of absence, granted on account of disability on the 11th day of July, was directed by me to resume command of the First Division. Brigadier General C. R. Woods was thus relieved from command of his old brigade.* On the 22nd of August, by virtue of Special Field Orders, Numbers 106, from Department and Army of the Tennessee, Brigadier-General Woods was relieved from duty in my command and assigned to command the Third Division, Seventeenth Corps. The promotion was well deserved, though I was sorry to part with so good an officer. During General Osterhaus' absence he was promoted to his well-earned rank of major-general of volunteers, to fill the vacancy of the lamented and much loved McPherson, Colonel C. C. Walcutt, Forty-sixth Ohio Volunteer Infantry, commander of a brigade in the Fourth Division, was by the President appointed brigadier-general of volunteers on the 30th of July for gallant and meritorious conduct during the campaign, and was assigned to command in the Fourth Division. On the 26th, at 8 p.m. in pursuance of Special Field Orders, Nos. 101 and 108, from Department and Army of the Tennessee, I withdrew my command from its position in front of Atlanta, commencing with Major-General Osterhaus' division on the right, and continuing with Brigadier-Generals Hazen's and Harrow's divisions, respectively, and moved them across Utoy Creek to the vicinity of Camp Creek, by way of Judge Wilson's house, thence south by a by-road, reaching Camp Creek early on the morning of the 27th. The pickets of my command on duty in front of Atlanta were not relieved until after the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Corps had filled out of their works, when all were relieved simultaneously, under direction of Lieutenant-Colonel Strong, of department staff, and rejoined their proper commands. The withdrawal of the troops was more successful than we had a right to anticipate, as it accomplished with only the loss of 1 man in my command. The First and Second Divisions were placed in position one mile south of Camp Creek, and the Fourth Division was held as a reserve. The distance marched during the night was thirteen miles, over very difficult roads, and in the midst of a disagreeable rain.

After reconnoitering the roads in front to be traveled on the 28th, I started, forward at 8 a.m., with the division of Osterhaus' in advance, on a neighborhood road directly in my front leading toward Fairburn, forming the left column of the Army of the Tennessee, behind which the trains of the army were directed to move. About two miles from the position occupied on the night of the 27th, we crossed the Campbellton and Atlanta road, and struck the Fairburn road two miles and a half from the railroad. This road being assigned to the corps of Generals Blair and Dodge, I was compelled to cut an entire road parallel with the Fairburn road to the railroad, a distance of three miles. This road was made through dense woods by the pioneers of the First Division, under the supervision of General Osterhaus and Captain Klostermann, chief engineer of the corps, and was completed so rapidly that the advance was at no time checked. The head of my column struck the West Point railroad, two miles north of Fairburn, near Shadna Church, at noon, and immediately went into position covering the road. The division of Brigadier-General Hazen coming up immediately, was placed in position on the left of General Osterhaus, and both divisions intrenched; the division of General Harrow was massed in reserve. I detached one of the brigades of General Harrow, with orders to destroy the railroad track and telegraph wire, instructing General Harrow to cause the ties to be burned and the rails to be burned, bent, and so twisted as to render them entirely useless and irreparable, and to break the telegraph wire in pieces and conceal it a distance from the road. On the morning of the 29th General Harrow reported the order fully executed. I made a personal examination of the road, and do not hesitate to pronounce the destruction most complete. I directed the cuts in the road to be filled up with dirt and logs, and that percussion-shells be concealed in them in such a manner as to explode should the enemy attempt to repair the road. The enemy's cavalry was ascertained to be in my front.

The 29th was passed in position covering the road, and on the 30th at 7 a.m., in accordance with Special Field Orders, Nos. 112 and 113, from department headquarters. I moved forward on the direct route toward Jonesborough, crossing Pond Creek and Shoal Creek. About two miles south of the point of the railroad from which we started a detachment of the Ninth Illinois Mounted infantry and Captain Jessup's company, D, Fifth Ohio Cavalry (my escort company), all under the direction of Captain Cunningham, one of my aides, struck the skirmishing, a distance of two miles, where they had erected strong and extensive barricades south of Pond Creek behind which they took refuge. Four men were lost in this advance. The position taken up by the enemy appeared too strong for this force to advance against, and the skirmishing continued until the head of my column arrived. The officers mentioned above displayed a great deal of gallantry in the advance mentioned. The force which they compelled to retire was a strong one and well organized. The head of my column arrived at the barricade at 10 a.m. The enemy's force consisted of two brigades of cavalry and a battery of artillery. They were handsomely dislodged, after a sharp little action, by the combined movements of General Kilpatrick's cavalry, a part of which by this time had moved to the head of my column, and the skirmishers of General Hazen's division, who that day had the advance of my command. Thence followed continual skirmishing to Shoal Creek, where they made another decided stand, using their artillery freely, necessitating the deployment of General Hazen's advance brigade in line of battle, and the opening of a battery to dislodge them. The advance then continued to Renfroe Place, which place named in the order for the termination of the march. The absence of water at that point compelled us to make a farther advance, and we moved forward, by direction of General Howard, to Flint River. Arriving there, we found the enemy posted beyond the river under cover of a strong barricade covering the crossing. I at once directed General Hazen to secure the bridge and crossing and, in conjunction with two regiments of Kilpatrick's cavalry, he ordered his skirmishers to charge the position of the enemy. This order was executed promptly and gallantly, the enemy dislodged, and the crossing secured. I at once crossed my whole command and took position after night on the most advantageous ground that could be secured, about three-quarters of a mile south of the river. It was near midnight before the rear of my column, General Osterhaus' division, had passed beyond the river, yet, at daylight on the morning of the 31st a strong defensive line was completed and my troops in position for defense. The right of General Hazen's division rested on the Jonesborough road, about half a mile from the railroad, his line deflecting to the left, and his pickets, with pickets from Osterhaus' division, extending to the river on the left; Harrow's left rested on the right of the road, connecting with Hazen's right, his line deflecting to the rear in like manner of Hazen's line; Harrow's pickets connected with those of a small force of Osterhaus' division, which held a commanding hill on General Harrow's right flank; General Osterhaus' pickets, with those of General Kilpatrick's extended to the river on my right. With the above noted exception General Osterhaus' division was held in reserve and formed my second line, which was intrenched. The hill spoken of on the right, which was occupied by the Twenty-fifth Iowa Volunteers, of Osterhaus' division, commanded the immediate ground between the right of my line and Flint River, and was a point of great importance, as its possession secured our front position against any attack on the right flank, which otherwise was much exposed. I caused this hill to be fortified before daylight of the 31st, and had the regiment spoken of in position. After daylight on the 31st it was found materially necessary to extend my line on the right so as to connect with the refused line (erected during the night). A permanent and systematic line was accordingly formed, requiring almost all of the troops of the Second and Third Brigades of General Osterhaus' division. During the night and in the morning a number of railroad trains arrived loaded with troops. These trains could be distinctly seen by the pickets, and the troops were observed to debark and go into position. General Osterhaus caused two light 12-pounder Napoleon guns to be placed in front of and within 1,000 yards of the depot. These guns could also play on the enemy's line in his front. A part of the Ninth Iowa and Twenty-ninth Missouri Infantry was ordered to support this section. Another section of light 12-pounders was placed in position in the center of the refused line on the right flank. The enemy resisted these operations of General Osterhaus with some determination.

Deeming it necessary that the left flank of my command should be more fully supported, I directed General Osterhaus,to send two regiments to report to General Hazen, commanding Second Division, on the left. At the same time, the two regiments of Osterhaus which covered our right flank were relieved by a brigade of the Sixteenth Corps. At noon the section of artillery, posted within 1,000 yards of the depot, opened with telling effect upon the enemy's troops, although the infantry had not fully completed their extended line. Our position being isolated from the main army and threatening the enemy's communication, we were exposed greatly, and liable to attack at any moment. Considering these facts, I caused my lines to be intrenched with great care, under the supervision of Captain Klostermann, who is one of the most through engineer officers I have met in the service. The positions obtained for all the batteries of the corps were the best that could have been selected, and division commanders were very active in their efforts to establish their lines with a view to hold the enemy should they attack us. At about 3 p.m. August 31, the enemy opened artillery in front of my entire line keeping up continual fire for about fifteen minutes, when they uncovered their lines and made a sudden and desperate assault on all parts of my line, approaching at points on the left of General Hazen's line (which has the left of my position) within thirty paces. The most determined part of the assault was maintained by General Hazen, the enemy, perhaps, thinking if they could create confusion at that point they could compel my whole line to retire beyond the river. The assault raged severely in front of Harrow and Osterhaus, the enemy approaching their lines at the average distance of 50 and 100 paces. The artillery firing of the enemy had prepared my troops for what followed, and when the assault commenced every man was in the trenches and ready for the fray. The most terrible and destructive fire I ever witnessed was directed at the enemy, and in less than one hour he was compelled to retire discomfited and in confusion. The rebel general, Patton Anderson, and his staff, rode fearlessly along his lines in front of the Second Division, and did all that a commander could do top make the assault a success. But few of those who rode with him in that perilous performance of duty returned from the field. Himself, with many of his staff, were seen to fall by the unerring and steady fire of my troops. Prisoners, captured subsequently, state that General Anderson was shot through the abdomen and carried off the field by his troops. I could not help but admire his gallantry, though an enemy. The enemy made two more assaults, but evidently with far less spirit and determination than the first. The withering and destructive fire which they had received in the first onset had dampened their zeal, and destroyed their confidence in being able to defeat us, and they were, consequently easily repulsed, though not without severe punishment being inflicted on them.

The enemy's loss was greater than in any former engagement, except on the 28th of July, near Atlanta. In front of the Second Division 186 bodies of the enemy were buried between our picket-lines. General Hazen captured 99 prisoners, not including 79 wounded, and captured 2 stand of colors. General Hazen estimated their wounded at 1,000, though subsequent facts ascertained places it beyond even that. General Harrow reports 56 prisoners captured, not including 60 wounded, and the burial of 12 dead bodies. General Osterhaus estimates their loss in his front at from 400 to 500.

After the enemy had evacuated on the night on the 1st, a staff officer of General Osterhaus discovered,immediately in rear of the point where the most desperate fighting occurred in his front, the graves of 131 bodies, which bore evidence of quite recent interment, and who had evidently been buried with the view to our not discovering them. From the reports of division commanders I do not hesitate to place their loss at 500 killed and from 3,000 to 5,000 wounded, with a loss of 241 prisoners, not including the wounded who fell into our hands. This engagement virtually gave us possession of the railroad at Jonesborough, for it established the fact that our position, within half a mile of the depot and the town, was secure against successful assault. After night-fall the enemy remained quiet. My loss in this engagement was only 154 in killed, wounded and missing.

The enemy's force in the assault was ascertained from prisoners captured to be the corps of Hardee and Lee.

On the 1st of September the Fourteenth Corps being ordered to take position on my left I was directed to make a demonstration in its favor. I accordingly, at the appointed time, caused all my artillery to open on the intrenched position of the enemy, and made feints at different points on my line as if I intended to assault them in their works. These feints, I think resulted satisfactorily, as it kept their trenches full in my front, while the Fourteenth Corps charged the enemy on my left. These demonstrations often, through the day, resulted in slight actions, which in every instance resulted in our favor. On the night of the 1st of September the enemy evacuated their position. At daydawn on the morning of the 2d, such had been their watchfulness, the pickets were in the town and skirmishing with those of the enemy just moving out. A great many stragglers from the enemy were picked up and sent to our rear. Receiving orders to move forward on a road leading by the right of the railroad, I placed Harrow's division in advance, and pursued the enemy, with constant skirmishing five miles to their intrenched position around Lovejoy's Station, and took position on the most elevated ground in the enemy's front, only about from 300 to 500 yards from what appeared their main line, and intrenched Harrow's division on the right and Osterhaus' on the left, keeping Hazen's in reserve. This position was maintained until the night of the 5th, we, in pursuance of Special Field Orders, Nos. 116 and 118, from department headquarters, I withdrew from the position at 8 p.m., and returned that night to my old position at Jonesborough, where I remained until 7 a.m. September 7, when I again withdrew and moved to the vicinity of Morrow's Mill, and there occupied the works the enemy had previously constructed. From this position, at 8 a.m. September 8, I started for East Point, the present place of encampment, where I arrived about 11 a.m. of the same day, and went into position, placing Osterhaus' division on the right, Hazen in the center, and Harrow on the left, connecting on the right with the Left Wing of the Sixteenth Army Corps, covering the Macon railroad.

The officers and soldiers of my command have performed the duties of the campaign willingly and earnestly; in no instance has a disposition other than to face the enemy been exhibited. Many of my officers have during the campaign fully earned promotion, some of them have already obtained, it, viz, General Osterhaus and General Walcutt, both heretofore mentioned. My staff officer, one and all, did their duty, and have my hearty thanks for their co-operation and zeal in assisting me to perform all the duties of the campaign.

I estimate the loss of the enemy in this campaign caused by my command at about 3,000 killed and 15,000 wounded. We have captured from the enemy, 2,030 prisoners, 420 wounded, and received 210 deserters; aggregate, 2,660; 11 stand of colors and about 5,000 stand of small-arms. My losses, including those had in skirmishes and picket advances not mentioned in the body of this report, as shown by the nominal lists accompanying this report, are 650 killed, 3,538 wounded, 633 missing; aggregate, 4,824. It is impossible in this report, covering so much time and so many engagements to speak of individual acts of heroism and bravery, for they were many and frequent. I respectfully call your attention to the nominal lists of casualties of each division, and the reports of division commanders herewith inclosed; also the maps drawn by Captain Klostermann, which exhibit the different situations of my troops in all the engagements with the enemy and the route traveled. The report of my chief of artillery is also inclosed with the report of my signal detachment which is commanded by Lieutenant edge, as brave an officer as is borne on the rolls of the American Army. He was always prompt and obedient to orders and in every advance secured the most prominent position from which he could view the movements secured the most prominent position from which he could view the movements of the enemy, notwithstanding the danger incurred. His reports often served me to operate successfully against the enemy with precision, when otherwise I might have been in doubt. I desire to call the attention of the Government to the meritorious services of Brigadier General C. R. Woods, Brigadier General Morgan L. Smith, Brigadier General William Harrow, Brigadier General Giles A. Smith, and Brigadier General W. B. Hazen, and respectfully recommend their promotion. For the recommendation of officers below the grade of brigadier-general for promotion, I invite attention to the reports of division commanders, which are approved by me.

The whole distance, marched by my command is 387 miles, as shown by the maps herewith inclosed, * not including the separate marches of detached divisions, which added, make 600 miles. It has rendered unfit for service of the enemy nearly 20,000 me-according to just estimates, 6,000 more than the entire strength of my command when it entered upon the campaign.

The medical officers serving on my staff, Surg. E. O. F Roler, medical director, and Surg. John M. Woodworth, medical inspector, were unremitting in their efforts to secure the comfort of the wounded and to cause their wounds to be healed so that they might return to duty. A just estimate of their services may be had from the fact that over 1,000 wounded men were returned to duty before the conclusion of the campaign. The duties and business arising in the adjutant-general's department were faithfully and efficiently performed under the direction of Lieutenant Colonel R. R. Townes, assistant adjutant-general of the corps, and by Captain Whitehead and Wheeler, assistant adjutant-general; Majors Stolbrand, Waterhouse, and Maurice, who acted as chiefs of artillery, respectively - Stolbrand, until captured by the enemy (heretofore mentioned), Waterhouse, until relieved on the 25th of June, Maurice from that date until the close of the campaign-fully and efficiently performed the duties assigned them. Major Frank C. Gillette, provost-marshal in addition to the duties of his office, which, upon such a campaign as the past, where prisoners are daily to be cared for, performed duty as an aide-de-camp. Captain L. E. Yorke performed treble duty of commissary of musters, acting assistant inspector-general, and aide-de-camp, and performed them all in such a manner as to leave no room for criticism. Upon Lieutenant L. B. Mitchell devolved one of the most important duties that rested upon any officer of the command, that of keeping the command supplied with ammunition. His duty was performed fully and to my entire satisfaction. At no time did he allow the supply to fall below 140 rounds per man of small-arm ammunition, and 200 rounds per gun of artillery ammunition. My personal aides, Major John R. Hotaling, Captain John s. Hoover, Captain W. B. Pratt, and Captain Cunningham, performed all the duties, both night and day, with a fearlessness and zeal which elicited my hearty commendation, often exposing themselves where duty called them to the most imminent danger. Lieutenant Colonel J. Condit Smith, chief quartermaster until he retired from the service on the 30th day of June, performed the duties of his department completely. He was succeeded by Captain C. F. Emery, who supplied the command with all it needed promptly and efficiently and soon entitled himself to my confidence. Lieutenant Colonel Charles A. Morton, chief commissary of subsistence, and Captain W. A. McLean, assistant chief commissary never at any time allowed the command to be fed on half rations, but kept full rations always in the hands of division commissaries. Fresh beef was furnished by them as often as necessary. Captain Klostermann, my chief engineer, was untiring in his efforts to establish systematic lines, both offensive and defensive to select those most favorable for occupation and, upon the march, to establish good and practicable routes. He is a most worthy and efficient officer. Lieutenant William H. Barlow, acting assistant quartermaster at headquarters,performed every duty assigned him with a promptness which proved efficiency.

Please find accompanying this report the reports of division commanders and lists of casualties, with reports from Major Maurice, chief of artillery, and Lieutenant Edge, chief signal officer, and maps and plans by Captain Klosterman, chief engineer.

JOHN A. LOGAN

Major-General, Commanding Fifteenth Army Corps.