CAMP BAKER, April 1, 1863.

SIR: I have the honor to report the return of the detachment which left this post under my command on the 20th of March, 1863, and the following as the result:

I marched from this post with a detachment of thirty-two men of Company A, Second Infantry California Volunteers, with twenty-five days' provisions, and proceeded in the direction of Fort Seward. Encamped the night of the 10th at Larrabee Station. Remained here the 11th, waiting for my provision train, which owing to an accident did not arrive until the evening of the 11th. Encamped the 12th at Fort Seward. Remained here until the 14th, when, having provided myself with a guide, I proceeded in the direction of the Big Bend of Eel River. Encamped the night of the 14th on the Chick-hu-wa-pet, a small stream which empties into Eel River. Had I observed my usual cuation I would have surprised a camp of Indians on this stream. They left in such haste on our approach that they neglected to take with them their camp equipage. As I had never been in this part of the district in serach of Indians, I reverred to matter to my guide (Fleming), who said it was not necessary to use cuation until we arrived at the source of this stream. The following day (the 15th) I went to the head of the Chick-hu-wa-pet and encamped. The 16th I sent the guide and two Indians, a tracker and interpreter, to spy their fires. They returned on the 17th and reported having seen Indians on the North Fork of Eel River, about thirty miles from its mouth. The 18th I sent Lieutenant Winchill with fifteen men to attack them. In the meantime I scouted in the vicinity of my camp with the other portion of my detachment. I remained here until the 21st, when a messenger arrived from Lieutenant Winchill requesting me to move my provision train to Kitten Valley, fifteen miles distant, at which point he would join me. I did so. This was the farthest point from Fort Baker that I took my train during the scout. It is distant from Fort Baker about sixty miles. Lieutenant Winchill reported that on arriving at the North Fork of Eel River he surprised and captured an Indian. He compelled the Indian by threats (and a few practical illustrations in the shape of a stick on the back of what he might expect if he proved on trial to be a bad Indian) to take him to the place where the Indians could be found. The prisoner finally consented to guide him to the rancheria. He came on them as they were gathering grass-seed and clover. They were extended about a mile along the bank of the river; the squaws busily at work, and the bucks, or Indian men, were armed and on the lookout for any enemy that might attack them, but the lieutenant was too quick for them. He deployed his men to the right and left so as to flank them, in which he succeeded. The river was high, the water very cold; the Indians preferred fighting to swimming. The prisoner attempting to run was shot. The engagement was short but sharp, the Indians disputing every inch of ground left them until they were all killed. Private Lynch, a brave but rash man, seeing three Indians going in a rocky place, followed them in. One of the Indians shot him through the heart. He called to Sergeant Thoman to come to his assistance. The sergeant hurried to the spot, but the poor man was dead. The sergeant shot and killed the Indian, and was in the act of reloading his rifle when another Indian, who was standing in the river, shot an arrow which struck the sergeant's cap-box, passed through the box and waist-belt. The box saved his life. The Indian was preparing to shoot the second arrow, but a ball from the sergeant's pistol went crashing through his brain. Owing to the distance from our camp Lynch was buried where he fell. Ten bucks and one squaw were found dead after the engagement. The lieutenant took all the squaws and children he could find and arrived at Kitten Valley on the 22d. As soon as it became sufficiently dark to prevent the Indians from seeing my men, I went to the North Fork and selected a ford. It was very difficult to cross, as the river was much swollen, about four feet deep and 100 yards wide. I crossed twenty men by midnight, and sent the rest back to camp. Went up the river two miles and remained until daylight; raining all the time very hard. At daylight went down on the river; found fresh sign; sent the Indians out. They returned at sundown and said they saw four squaws, but could not find their camp. I started at dark. Went up the river five miles and searched about until daylight, when we came on their rancheria on the bank of the river. I immediately surrounded them and poured a volley into their houses. The squaws came out. I sent them to the rear, and during the engagement they all escaped excepting two. It required nearly an hour to take this band, as they kept their arrows flying in showers. We were compelled to charge them. All the bucks of this band were killed, also one squaw-nine in all. I then took the two squaws and went over the mountain to attack a rancheria that our prisoners informed me I would find there. I found their houses with their fires still burning, but the birds had flown. They no doubt had heard our firing. Having good reason to believe that there was a number of Indians at the mouth of the river and between the forks, I hurried down so as to prevent them from concentrating in any considerable force as to endanger the lives of my men. After searching about for two or three days (at this time I had lost the run of dates) we discovered, about 10 o'clock one evening, some smoke issuing from a canon on the slope toward the Middle Fork of Eel River. I moved my mend own the mountain a short distance and waited patiently for daylight, to commence the attack. At the first peep of dawn I moved down to their camp-fires and halted, as there was another ravine to the left; and, thinking there might be Indians in it, I divided my command and directed Lieutenant Winchill to go to the left, down the canon. Shortly after Mr. Winchill had started I commenced placing my men for the attack. I placed some men in the gulch above the Indians as the attacking party, and some on the left bank in a position that enabled them to command the opposite bank, while, I with a sergeant and three men, went down in the gulch below them. The attacking party poured in a volley, and the Indians, instead of going over the right bank, rushed down the canon and right onto the muzzles of our guns, they (the Indians) sending their sharp sticks in every direction. We delivered our fire with our rifles, and kept up such a constant and well-directed fire from our revolvers that they were compelled to turn up the right bank, only three having succeeded in passing. One of them Sergeant Penwell shot through the head. Shortly after passing the other two were found dead in the gulch below, having died from their wounds. After the Indians turned up the bank and the men had got over the gulch then the work fairly commenced. We made wild havoc among them. There must have been a great number of them killed. I did not have time to search for them, as I wanted to join Lieutenant Winchill and be ready for a counter attack. Eighteen were found dead where the fighting commenced, but in this and the first engagement there must have been at least twenty-five bodies concealed about in the bushes and rocks, but in making my report of the number killed I will only report those that I actually saw dead. Two squaws were unavoidably killed in this engagement. Lieutenant Winchill surprised a camp of Indians in the canon shortly after leaving me. He killed eight bucks and captured the squaws and children. The Indians fought like tigers in all the engagements, but they had no time to look about them to decide on any particular manner of fighting. As nothing of interest occurred after this I will merely say that I returned to Fort Baker on the 1st of April, having been absent twenty-two days. In the four engagements 46 of the enemy were killed and 37 captured, making a total of killed and captured 83. As I said before, a much larger number was killed; that would make the number in killed and captured over 100, but as I did not see them I will not include them in the killed.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

H. FLYNN,

Captain, Second Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding.

Lieutenant CHARLES H. BARTH,

Adjutant Second Infantry California Volunteers.

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Humboldt Military District.