OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS,

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA,

San Francisco, October 15, 1862.

Honorable WILLIAM P. DOLE,

Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Washington, D. C.:

SIR: A few days since I received several letters from the supervisor and physician on the Round Valley Indian Reservation, giving me the unwelcome news that the white settlers in said valley had clandestinely after night, during the maturing and harvesting of the grain crops, from time to time thrown open our fences, making as many as seven gaps in one night on the Indian farm, turning in their hogs and cattle until nearly the entire crop has been destroyed, and then they told the Indians they had nothing to eat through the winter and must steal or starve, and if they stole anything belonging to the settlers they should all be killed. This frightened and induced several hundred Indians to leave the reservation and start back to their old homes in the mountains. I immediately telegraphed to the officer in command of troops at Red Bluff to stop them, which he has done, any they are now at Nome Lackee, in charge of troops, whither I go to-morrow to make some arrangement for their support. I have laid the whole matter before Brigadier-General Wright, who has answered me promptly, as you will see by the inclosed letter. *

I hope you will now, without delay, have instructions by telegraph given to the general to remove every settler within the limits of the valley immediately, all of which has been surveyed for and declared an Indian reservation, called Nome Cult. Some of the settlers in this valley have just claims for their farms made in the valley before the whole of it was declared an Indian reservation. But it is a military necessity now to remove them, in view of securing peace, quiet, and safety to Government property, and afterward let them bring their claims up against the United States for settlement and payment after having been compelled to remove. I know of no other way to have the constant annoyance we have with the settlers settled, for I feel sure nearly all who thus annoy us are disloyal to the Government of the United States, and will continue these troubles while they remain. Should they be immediately removed I can buy their surplus grain, which will keep the Indians until in safety we can raise another crop, in 1863. Hoping to hear from you soon on this subject, I have the honor to be,

Your obedient servant,

GEO. M. HANSON,

Superintending Agent Indian Affairs, Northern Dist. of California.