FEBRUARY 23 - MARCH 9, 1864. - Scout from Springfield, Mo., into Northern Arkansas, and skirmishes near Buffalo City (March 1) and at Bennett's Bayou (March 2).

Report of Captain Eli Hughes, Sixth Missouri State Militia Cavalry, commanding expedition.

SPRINGFIELD, MO., March 9, 1864.

GENERAL: I have the honor herewith to submit the following official report: In accordance with Special Orders, Numbers 50, issued from district headquarters Southwest Missouri, on February 23, 1864, I left Springfield, Mo., in charge of 111 men, with orders to proceed south into Arkansas. On the 25th of February, 1864, I crossed White River, reaching Yellville on the 26th. In conformity to an order received prior to my departure from Springfield, Mo., I dispatched 30 men to escort refugees desiring to emigrate to Springfield, Mo. Traversing the country situate between Sugar Loaf Prairie and Yellville, Ark., I encountered a band of guerrillas, killed 2 men, who, as I subsequently ascertained, belonged to Major Gunning's command.

I took up line of march from Yellville on the morning of the 28th, halting 30 miles from Yellville and 6 miles below Buffalo City, in vicinity of which I remained three days, scouring the country on both sides of the river. March 1, I sent detachment, Lieutenant Overman, Company H, Sixth Missouri State Militia, in command, with orders to proceed down river on opposite side, to which my operations were confined. I now had only 40 men left remaining with me. About 10 o'clock on morning of 1st, while near or not far from Buffalo City, I encountered a band of guerrillas, killed Lieutenant J. B. Smith, Eighth Missouri Infantry, of C. S. Army, and a man named Charles Cain, known as a desperado, and regarded with terror by all loyal citizens. Meanwhile Lieutenant Overman was contending with a band of Tracy's men, not far distant, and succeeded in killing 2 of the band and capturing 3. One of the men killed was of the name of Heron; the other, a Baptist preacher, whose name I do not know. On morning of March 2, I left White River, 8 miles above Calico Rock, crossed mountain to Bennett's Bayou, on North Fork White River, where I came in contact with about 50 guerrillas with Tracy at their head. They had there murdered a Union man named Anderson and a negro. On my approach Tracy dispersed his men among the hills and fired upon my command from behind rocks and trees, but without effect.

On the morning of March 3, deployed small detachments of skirmishers, thoroughly scoured Bennett's Bayou, killed Frank Russell, a notorious guerrilla from Wright County, Mo.,, and a man of the name of Howard, from Fulton County, Ark.; also captured one of Freeman's gang. Thence proceeded through Texas and Wright Counties, Mo., to Springfield, where I turned over to district provost-marshal Southwest Missouri all the property captured during scout, and which consisted of 16 horses and a number of fire-arms, such as shotguns, rifles, & c. I found forage in abundance during whole of scout.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

ELI HUGHES,

Captain Company K, Sixth Cavalry, Missouri State Militia.

Brigadier General J. B. SANBORN.