[Captain WILLIAM H. ANDREWS,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.]

Numbers 14. Report of Captain George M. Dewey, Tenth New York Battalion Infantry.

HDQRS. TENTH BATTALION NEW YORK VOLUNTEERS,
February 8, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to forward the following report of the part taken by this command in the action of the 6th instant:

We left camp about 9 o'clock on the morning of the 6th instant, taking our position on the left of the brigade line; crossed the Rapidan at Morton's Ford in the early part of the afternoon, and took position in line of battle upon a slight eminence about 1 mile from the ford, under a fire from the enemy's battery stationed opposite our right.

Just before dark the enemy opened upon our line with artillery and musketry. We were advanced about 20 yards, taking position on the crest of the hill upon the left of the One hundred and eighth Regiment New York State Volunteers. Here one of our men was struck in the knee by a minie-ball; he has since died. Shortly after dark we were ordered to advance with the One hundred and eighth New York Volunteers and capture a house about 500 yards to our front, and at this time held and occupied by the enemy's skirmishers. Captain Everett, of the One hundred and eighth, took command and we silently advanced in line, crossing several ravines and scaling a high fence. Upon arriving at the house we were ordered to fire and charge, and a terrible volley was poured into the house, which was followed by a charge from our line, driving the enemy from the buildings and adjacent ground.

After reforming, this command was ordered to the rear and to its position of the afternoon. A few minutes after our arrival at the position in question we were ordered by General Owen, and afterward by General Hays, to convey the wounded from the barn occupied as a hospital to the ford. We were occupied at this work until after our division had left the field. Every wounded man was removed from the hospital. No stretchers were sent from this side of the river to the hospital of the Second Brigade, and we were compelled to remove the wounded upon extemporized conveyances of blankets, boards, &c. I crossed the river with a remnant of the men of my command about an hour after the last of the division had crossed, and rejoined the brigade early next morning.

During the action we lost 3 wounded; 1 of these has since died, and another suffered amputation of a foot.

My command numbered 4 commissioned officers and 65 enlisted men. Thirty of these men were recruits who had not handled a musket until a day or two previous. They were first drilled in loading and firing on the morning of the 6th instant before leaving camp. It is owing to the perseverance and bravery of the commissioned and non-commissioned officers, and some of the older soldiers of the command, that they acquitted themselves so well during the afternoon and morning.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEORGE M. DEWEY,

Captain, Commanding Battalion.