HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
New Orleans, January 23, 1864

Major General H. W. HALLECK,

General-in-Chief, U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.:

GENERAL: I am gratified to be able to state that nearly the entire force of the Nineteenth Army Corps has re-enlisted for the war. A considerable portion of the Thirteenth Corps has also re-enlisted, and all would have been obtained, except for the orders received from the War Department in regard to the suspension of bounties. We have since received information that the bounties are renewed, and I am quite confident that a greater part, if not all, of these two corps will re-enlist. The spirit of the troops is admirable. The will considerably reduce my command, but a sufficient force will be left for the operations referred to in the accompanying dispatch,*

which we shall commence as soon as the navigation permits.

I cannot but express my great gratification at the report which you make of re-enforcements for this department, which I hope may be sufficient to compensate for the loss by furloughs. I have received a communication from General Sherman in regard to the stoppage of our forage on the river, and hope that all difficulties in this respect will be removed. The political indications in this State are satisfactory. I entertain no doubt that a full vote will be given in the election of the 22nd of February, and that the State officers, with a full delegation in both Houses of Congress, composed of earnest and intelligent supporters of the Administration and disposed to co-operate with the military forces of the department, will be ready for service by the middle of April.

There is great unanimity of feeling with the people in this State as to election. No serious objection is made except on the part of persons whose private plans have been somewhat disturbed by the immediate organization of a State government. Let me assure you that attention to questions relating to the Government will not interfere with a preparation for military movements.

I have the honor to be, with much respect your obedient servant,

N. P. BANKS,

Major-General, Commanding.