Colonel R. H. CHILTON,

Chief of Staff.

Numbers 3. Synopsis of testimony as to robbery of the passengers. *

HYMAN ROBBERY.

The first proof is a letter from Mr. Phil. Williams, of Winchester, a very prominent citizen, whom Hyman consulted on his arrival at that place. The letter is to General Early, and is dated February 15, 1864. It contains Hyman's version of the robbery. Hymman says that as he passed a brick house on the west side of road near Woodstock (north of it), he saw 7 Confederate cavalry; at Fisher's Hill. Hyman had two wagons, driven by two sons of Mr. Cross, of Newtown, and there was a young man in one of them named Grove, also of Newtown, who remarked as the men passed, "There goes Cherry. " (Grove subsequently denied having made to remarks.) There was also with Hyman a boy of about seventeen years of age named Ezekiel, from Richmond. The men halted at the foot of the hill near the river, and one of them rode back to the wagons and asked Hyman if he had any pursue. Hyman gave him a small purse with ten gold dollars and some paper money, when the man said to him that he had a belts, and while he was trying to get off one without showing the other was knocked down and robbed of about $6,000 in gold (chiefly twenty-dollar pieces), a silver watch, a great coat (invisible green with yellow silk sleeve linings), in the pocket of which was a fur collar and a small Hebrew prayer-book. There was taken from young Ezekiel a lady's gold watch and a belt containing a number of silver coins and medals.

It appears from the letter of Colonel Carrington, provost-marshal at Richmond, that soon after the robbery General Winder sent two detectives to the valley to investigate the matter, at the request of the father of Ezekiel. These detectives reported that they were convinced that Cherry and some other men committed the robbery; that they determined to arrest Cherry, and were piloted by a negro 6 miles beyond Strasburg in search of him. Fearing foul play they turned back, but on searching the negro found on him the watch stolen from young Ezekiel, which was subsequently identified by his father. They did not bring off the negro because they said they were afraid to encumber themselves with him. It should be mentioned that the detective got Mr. Williams' letter from General Early before they went down the valley.

On March 9, 1864, a letter was written by a Major E. W. Cross from Harrisonburg to Colonel Carrington, in which he charges that the detectives did find out the guilty parties but were bribed to say nothing. Cross says that he had examined some of the money said to have been taken at the railroad robbery, but that all was marked in a peculiar manner. (In Mr. Williams' letter it was stated that the stolen money was marked.) Cross further says that the perpetrators were generally known in the vicinity of Harrisonburg. He gives the names of a number of persons who can show some of the money. He also state that Major Gilmor, while under the influence of liquor, had boasted that he had arranged the whole affair. He says he can name every man concerned but could not prove the fact, but gives the names of others who can; also states that Gilmor had boasted that he had arranged the matter with the detectives, and could manage the whole detective force of the Government.

The papers above referred to were sent by the department to General Imboden, with orders to investigate the whole matter. The proof obtained by General Imboden was as follows:

Captain Owings, quartermaster of Gilmor's battalion, states that Gilmor gave him $160 in gold to buy a horse with, and told him that most of it was taken from a Jew, and that he had arranged the affair, though he did not take the money personally. Gilmor stated that Cherry, Martin, and others were engaged; other names not remembered. The robbery took place below Harrisonburg. The conversation took place son after Gilmor's return from the railroad expedition. Gilmore was in liquor when the conversation occurred.

Captain Ross, of Gilmor's battalion, testifies that he conversed with several of the men engaged in the railroad robbery, who told him they got no gold. He talked with Martin, and told him that if he had had anything to do with robbing the Jew named Hyman he had better make a clean breast of it. Martin said that he met Major Gilmor near Fisher's Hill with other men not recognized. He did not know Gilmor until the latter hailed him, nor was Gilmor riding his own horse. Gilmor ordered Martin with some others to follow a wagon then near to a certain place, and take out two boys named Cross and remove them out of sight of the wagon. The wagon contained Jews. Martin's share of the gold was about $800. Gilmor acknowledged to Captain Ross that he had arranged the affair of robbing the Jew; had put the men concerned all right, and had stood off and seen the thing well done.

Quartermaster-Sergeant Gorsuch, of Gilmor's battalion, testifies that the men got but little gold, if any, from the railroad.

Private John Bosley, Company C, Gilmor's battalion, told Gorsuch that he had seen a pile of gold in the possession of Major Gilmor.

Private Todd, of Company C, told Bosley that he (Todd) had received about $800, and also that Major Gilmor, Cherry, Mel. Todd, Martin, and one man in McNeill's company were engaged in robbing they Jew. Bosley also stated that Martin had given more than $500 to Cherry's mother, in Staunton.

Private Harding, Company C, testifies that he stopped all night below Woodstock the day after the railroad affair, and that the next morning he met Gilmor, ex-Lieutenant Billings, and Snodgrass, with two or three others, going down the valley, and a man remarked that he would "bet the major was on the make now. "

Lieutenant Kemp testifies that he heard Cherry say that he had placed some money in the hands of Todd; do not know how much. Heard Major Gilmor say that he was not there, or that they would not catch him in the affair; does not remember the words.

In Major Gilmor's report of the attack on the railroad he says Cherry was present, but he was aware of it until after the affair was over.

RAILROAD ROBBERY.

Gilmor's report state the reasons why he did not bring off the prisoners taken in the cars. Alleges that the robbery of the passengers was without his knowledge and against his orders. States that he took about $900 in greenbacks from the mail-bags. That when the train was first attacked he went to get in the express car to break open the safe, but went into the smoking-car by mistake. The robbery took place while he was engaged in the express and smoking car, where one of the passengers attacked him. The report shows that the principal attention was given to plunder.

Sergeant Levy, Company B, testifies that Gilmor gave orders the evening before not to molest citizens were robbed the robber should be shot. More robberies were committed.

Quartermaster Sergeant Gorsuch proves that men who were on the expedition admitted that they robbed citizens, except those in the ladies's car. Pistols, money, and clothing were taken.

Private Bosley testifies to the admissions of men engaged on the railroad that they had robbed passengers. One man took a watch from a lady.

Private harding testifies that they were ordered not to take anything from the employes of the railroad, but understood they might take from citizens. He remonstrated against the proceeding, and told Gilmor there were so good Southern men as himself in the train. One man got $13 in gold and silver. Gilmor told them they might take anything form the conductor or from the express agent.