HEADQUARTERS OWEN'S RIVER EXPEDITION.

Camp Independence, Cal. September 30, 1862

COLONEL: Inclosed please find a copy of a letter from the Indian superintendent (or agent) Southern District of California, directed to the Indian chiefs of this valley, which was sent under cover to me, with a written request that I would read the same to said Indians. In accordance with the request I sent to Kern River and procured an interpreter, and had the letter translated to the chiefs, and made all the necessary arrangements to have all the chiefs and principal Indians of this country at my camp on the 20th of September, and here they are, and have been since that time, in number about 100. Also the sub-agent from Nevada Territory, Mr. Wassen, who is here by special request of Mr. Wentworth, but no Mr. Wentworth although this is the 30th of September instead of the 20th. I deem it my duty to make a report of these facts, for the reason that there is great danger of another outbreak amongst these Indians, arising from what they seem to think duplicity and treachery on the part of the whites. They say that they have complied with their part of the treaty, have given up their arms and families as hostages, and the whites are "mucho big lie; no give them nothing. " In short, there is a very bad spirit around amongst them, and if any trouble grows out of it I want the blame to fall where it belongs, and not upon the military. I have, through the management of Mr. Wassen, put them off with excuses for Mr. Wentworth's non-appearance until excuses have failed to be of any avail, and in order to keep them here until Mr. Wentworth does come, if he arrives within the next ten days, I have ordered the acting assistant quartermasters at this post to furnish them with meat for the period of ten days, and most respectfully ask the approval of the general commanding the department.

GEO. S. EVANS,

Lieutenant-Colonel Second Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Asst. Adjt. General U. S. Army, San Francisco, Cal.
