HDQRS. MILITARY DIVISION OF WEST MISSISSIPPI,
Vicksburg, Miss., June 2, 1864.

Major General F. STEELE,

Commanding Dept. of Arkansas, Little Rock, Ark.:

I am yet without definite information as to the condition, resources, and wants of your command, and can only indicate generally what part your troops will take in projected operations. The troops and resources in the Departments of the Gulf and Arkansas, and from the posts on the east bank of the Mississippi, will be concentrated as soon as possible for operations west of the river. The movement will be by land, and from a point that will cover to a material extent, as the troops advance, the line of the Arkansas and the frontier of Missouri. The best troops will be selected for this service, and they will be prepared for the field at the earliest period, making the organization as homogeneous and perfect as possible by bringing in all detachments and supplying all details for special service by hired men or from the non-effectives. Every effective man should be placed in the ranks, and all other interests should be subordinate to the essential one of our military operations. In the absence of definite information I cannot judge how large a force can be furnished for the field from your department, but I have supposed that it will not be less than 15,000 men, and am basing my estimates upon this number. The junction of your command with the main body will be on or east of the Washita River, and before determining the point of departure and route, I should be glad to hear from you fully. The posts on the Mississippi River will be re-enforced materially by militia from the Western States, and, if necessary, some can be sent to you for garrison purposes. I shall go to New Orleans for a few days, but will return to Natchez and this place in about ten days. In the mean time I wish that the organization of the force intended for the field be pushed forward as rapidly as possible, and that the line of the Arkansas be put in its best condition for defense with the troops that are to be left for that purpose.

ED. R. S. CANBY,

Major-General, Commanding.