POST ARKANSAS, TEX., January 28, 1864.

Lieutenant Colonel W. B SCATES,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Thirteenth Army Corps:

LIEUTENANT-COLONEL: Since my last report nothing new has transpired; everything right so far as I can judge. The bastions are completed and guns, under the efficient charge of Captain Thompson, of Company C, Twentieth Iowa (who with his company were detailed by me to take charge of the guns), are now all in proper position. The men we drilled daily at the guns and have made excellent progress, and the practice at the distance of 1 1\2 miles is certainly as good as the average. The guns have all been thoroughly cleaned and varnished, and are kept in complete order. The magazines are completed and the ammunition stored in the same. I have company drill every a. m. and battalion drill every p. m., to which both men and officers have given prompt attention, and as the acting inspector-general has just compelled his work of inspection and will report officially to you, I need not now remark as to the proficiency in drill, &c., of the troops, all of which will be reported to you officially.

I do not wish to be considered importunate, but let me once more say to you, my men ae destitute of clothing, and that, too, in its literal sense. Tents we can get along without, so long as we remain here, as barracks have been put up by me since I came here, which are comfortable, but clothing we must have, and I do most earnestly request that supplies be forwarded to us as soon as possible. No paymaster has as yet been here, consequently we have not been paid. But clothing is what we want. Provisions are plenty and a sufficient supply is now on hand to last until the 1st of March, and may be longer, as commissary stores are now being discharge from the steamer Clinton, the amount of which I cannot ascertain for this report, but I shall the first opportunity send full report.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,

WM. G. THOMPSON,

Major, Commanding Post of Aransas.

P. S.-I am informed by the post quartermaster that he has sufficient provisions for the post (500 men) for ninety days from this date.