Captain J. P. WOOD,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Second Division.

Numbers 6. Report of Captain William H. Fogler, Nineteenth Maine Infantry.

HEADQUARTERS NINETEENTH MAINE VOLUNTEERS,
Near Stevensburg, Va., February 8, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to make the following report of the operations of this regiment during the 6th of 7th instant:

We left our present camp at 7 a. m. February 6, 1864, the third regiment of the brigade in the line of march. Were moved to a point near Morton's Ford, on the north bank of the Rapidan; arrived there about 11 a. m. Remained in line with the rest of the brigade during the passage of the Third Division across the river, and until dark, when we received orders to cross the river at the bridge, which was accomplished. We were placed in position on the left of the Fifteenth Massachusetts Regiment, about half a mile from the river, and some 10 rods to the right of the road, which runs perpendicularly to the river from the bridge. At once received orders to place skirmishers 100 yards in our front, which was done, Companies D, Lieutenant Pierce, and F, Captain Starbird, commanding, being selected for that duty. About 9 a. m. received orders to detail two companies for same duty, who were to be deployed on the right of the Eighty-second New York's detail of skirmishers, and to extend from their line to the river at a point about 80 rods above the bridge. Companies B, Captain Parsons, and G, Captain Whitehouse, were detailed for this purpose, and reported to a staff officer of brigade, who conducted them to their position.

About 10. 30 p. m. I received orders from Colonel Baxter, commanding brigade, to deploy the remaining six companies as skirmishers on the left of the Fifteenth Massachusetts Volunteers, which had previously been deployed. Our line was to extend from the large house just in front of the left of the line of the Fifteenth Massachusetts to the house on the hill, to the left of the main road before mentioned, our line running across the open field. this order was executed as soon as practicable.

At 1 a. m. of the 7th instant, received orders to fall back, form the regiment, and return to the north bank of the river. I did so with four companies, the other two having been taken by Colonel Baxter for the following duties: Company C, Captain nash, to remain on the original skirmish line, with instructions to fall back if pressed hard before two hours, and to return at any rate at the expiration of that time to the north bank of the river and rejoin the regiment. Company A, Captain Spaulding, was directed to form a line near the bridge, on the left of the road, to support the skirmishers, and to remain until the skirmish line fell back. At 2 a. m. we were in our first position ont he north bank of the river. The companies that were left on the other side rejoined the regiment about 3 a. m. We occupied this line until 7 p. m., when we received orders to return to camp, where we arrived at 10 p. m.

Our whole loss was 2 men wounded; none killed or missing. Both men wounded were hit while crossing the bridge by stray bullets.

The conduct of both officers and men of the entire regiment was excellent throughout.

I am, captain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

WM. H. FOGLER,

Captain, Commanding Nineteenth Maine Regiment.