[Inclosure to Dwight's memorandum.-Copy of newspaper clipping.]

BOONE CIRCUIT COURT.

The May term of this court, Judge Burckhartt presiding, commenced Monday last.

The following grand jury were empanneled: R. G. Lyle, foreman; James Ellis, clerk; Joseph Estes, William T. O'Rear, John Berry, Otto Barnes, John T. Henry, David Bruton, sr., James Long, Edwin M. Bass, Thomas C. Rowland, John Hopper, Thomas A. Hart, William D. Kelly, Lewis P. Miller, John Q. Orr, and Peter E. Nichols.

The following cases were disposed of: State vs. Freeman Houchins, robbery, continued; State vs. Freeman Houchins and Hopper, ditto; State vs. Odell, Maples, Weddell, and Leadbetter, murder (killing Martin Oldham), change of venue to Audrain County; State vs. Pearce Buffington, dealing with slaves (employing runaway slaves at his mill near Claysville), as well as a civil suit by James I. Hickman against the same party, on same charge, suspended by order of General Fisk, pursuant to the following, to Major Harbison, circuit attorney:

HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF NORTH MISSOURI,
Saint Joseph, May 14, 1864.

A. J. HARBISON, Esq.,

Circuit Attorney, Boone Circuit Court, Columbia, Mo.:

DEAR SIR: I am directed by Brigadier-General Fisk, commanding the Military District of North Missouri, to say to you that no further prosecution will be allowed in the case of the State of Missouri vs. Pearce Buffington, upon indictment for dealing with slaves, or in the case of James I. Hickman vs. Pearce Buffington, defendant, for recovery of money, without orders from these headquarters.

The cases have been submitted to headquarters Department of the Missouri, for decision as to whether they will be allowed to proceed. The military authorities are forbidden to return fugitives to their masters, and they are not permitted to leave the State of Missouri, for the simple reason that Missouri needs all the laborers that she has. It certainly, then, is unjust to allow men who have employed these fugitives from service and labor to be prosecuted for violation of law and recovery of damages.

The U. S. authorities will decide upon this case, of which decision you will be duly advised.

I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully,

W. T. CLARKE,

First Lieutenant and Aide-de-Camp.

This is a strange proceeding, such as never before heard of in the history of the war in Missouri-Columbia Statesman.