HEADQUARTERS NAVAJO EXPEDITION,
Fort Canby, N. Mex., February 28, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to report that on the 26th instant a party of Mexican citizens arrived at this post from an unsuccessful pursuit of a party of Navajo loadrones who had robbed them of some stock. They are from the Rio Arriba, and traversed the country from the place thought the Chusco, making a thorough examination of the country at the base of the Juanico range of mountains and in the vicinity of El Canon de Chelle, but without discovering but one Indian, whom they killed. I informed this party that for the present, that so long as the Indians continued coming in for immigration in such large numbers, that active operations would not be renewed against them; that all stock o whatever description brought in by them is assured to them so long as they remained under my protection, and that all claims must be sent in to the general commanding for adjudication; that any attack made on these people now would in all probability injure those who were coming in in good faith, the evil consequences of which it would be difficult to estimate. There is no question but what it would have the effect of stopping the arrivals, thereby protracting the war indefinitely and sacrificing the results of the last campaign. They fully coincided with my view and agreed to return. They being destitute, I furnished them provisions for the purpose.

Although citizens cannot be blamed, but must, on the contrary, be praised for their energy in pursuing so far the robbers of their flocks, their hereditary foe, the Navajo, they should at the same time understand that any act of hostility committed against the Navajo at present may place a barrier in the way of carrying out the wise measures now in successful progress of feeing this Territory from the lawless acts of these people. Of course this forbearance has no reference to those who leave this county for purposes of pillage.

I have now here 2,500 Indians awaiting transportation, besides about 500 already sent from this post since the return of Colonel Carson from the Canon de Chelle, and they are daily arriving. In about two days i expect a train of ten teams, which with the number of teams I shall be able to send of the depot transportation, will, I think, enable me to send all away who are now here. In the mean time I have them employed bringing in grass as part payment for their food. The moment they cease coming in hostilities will be again resumed with the usual vigor. Having been informed that there was a band of ladrones inhabiting the hills west of Bear Springs, I detached Captain F. McCabe with 50 men yesterday morning with instructions to break up their rendezvous and punish them.

Taking advantage of the temporary cessation of hostilities I have established drills, by which the troops are being much benefited.

I am, captain, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

A. B. CAREY,

Captain, Thirteenth Infantry, Commanding.

Captain BENJAMIN, C. CUTLER,

Asst. Adjt. General, Santa Fe, N. Mex.