Numbers 2. Report of Captain Ezra King, Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry.

HDQRS. COMPANY H, FIFTEENTH ILLINOIS CAVALRY,
Helena, Ark., February 26, 1864.

SIR: In accordance with instructions I received from you I marched from camp at 8 a. m. on the 21st of February to Simmas' farm; there encamped for the night. On the morning of the 22nd I crossed Big Creek after tedious time, being delayed by the boat having been destroyed previously. I then marched to Wallace's Ferry by the way of Trenton. In coming in sight of Trenton discovered some of the enemy; gave chase and had 1 man thrown from his horse and hurt severely, which caused another delay, which caused me to by behind time on arriving at the ferry. I found Captain Wier and the pickets I was so anxious [about] gone. I sent Lieutenant Campbell and 15 men upon the Thomas' Mill road.

On the 23rd instant Captain Wier came in front where he had been. I then sent 10 men and a sergeant to re-enforce Lieutenant Campbell, with orders, if there should be danger apprehended,to all fall back to the ferry. About 9.30 p. m. on the 23rd, I received orders from you for me to join you at Colonel Taylor's either that night or in the morning; also for me to turn over my prisoners with guard to Lieutenant Chase. About 11 o'clock that night heard firing in the direction where Lieutenant Campbell was posted. I immediately ordered the command mounted and marched to Thomas' Mill; crossing there, learned that the post had been surprised and most of the horses and arms captured. I lost from my company 1 men prisoners, with 1 lieutenant; had 1 private wounded, who is now in camp; also 1 enlisted man from Company L, prisoner, and 2 wounded. I lost, captured by the enemy, 11 Government horses and 6 private horses from my company, and 7 Government horses from detachment of Company L, with all the horse equipments and most of the arms.

Learning that the enemy had left with so much the start that I could not reach them that night, owing to the difficulty of following the trail, I proceeded to Colonel Taylor's, arriving there at 3 a. m. the 24th instant, and reported to you.

Respectfully submitted.

EARA KING,

Captain, Commanding Detachment.

Major CARMICHAEL.