HDQRS. DISTRICT OF NORTHEASTERN ARKANSAS,
Batesville, January 26, 1864.

Colonel O. D. GREENE,

Asst. Adjt. General, Dept. of the Missouri:

COLONEL: I have the honor herewith to transmit eight affidavits* of citizens of this district, filed against a detachment of Eighth Regiment Missouri State Militia Cavalry, under command of Captain Akard, which came here from Springfield, Mo., with telegraphic dispatch from you extending time for enlisting veterans to 1st January instant. Had I known the conduct of these troops on the march here and back previous to their departure, I should have dealt severely with them, but they were ordered back to Springfield before the affidavits appeared against them.

I beg to call your attention to the utter impracticability of converting this portion of Arkansas to loyalty while such conduct on the part of our troops is left unpunished and the sufferers unpaid. No reasoning canconvince the poor cottager, who is robbed of nearly all he has by both armies, that the Union is a whit safer for his creed than secession. When he reflects upon the atrocities of our troops he sees little to choose between them and guerrillas; and the protection furnished him proving a fallacy, while his suffering is a sad reality, you cannot hope to reclaim him.

I earnestly ask that the major-general commanding will cause restitution to be made, either by assessment on the officers and men of the Eighth Regiment Missouri State Militia Cavalry, or such other means as in his judgment he may deem best. I have told the affiant that I would lay this matter before you for the consideration of the general commanding department, and they look to me for an answer.

I have to acknowledge receipt of your dispatch, forwarded via Springfield, notifying me that time for re-enlisting veterans was extended to 1st March next. This was brought me by detachment of Sixth Regiment Missouri State Militia Cavalry, commanded by Captain Turner, and here again complaints followed this command. Judge Byers, a most estimable citizen of this place, residing 3 miles from town, was rudely assaulted, his life threatened, and his horses and mules stolen from him by these brigands, for I cannot call men soldiers who, using their power for such base purposes, terrify and rob the country they pass through. I have informed General Sanborn of the conduct of the detachment Eighth Missouri State Militia Cavalry sent here and furnished him with copies of inclosed affidavits, but not of the conduct of detachment Sixth Missouri State Militia lately here, for I had not an opportunity of learning this rascality till it was too late to send by them.

Trusting this complaint will meet with prompt action from department headquarters, and that some redress may be made to the complaints, I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. R. LIVINGTON,

Colonel First Nebraska Cavalry, Commanding District.