Numbers 2. Report of Lieutenant George W. Yates, aide-de-camp to Major-General Pleasonton, U. S. Army.

HEADQUARTERS CAVALRY CORPS, March 3, 1864.

GENERAL: I have the honor to report that I joined an expedition, composed of 1,500 men and one section of artillery, commanded by Lieutenant Porter, Battery E, First Artillery, the whole commanded by Brigadier General George A. Custer, on the night of the 28th of February, 1864, at Madison Court-House, Va.

On the 29th, at 1 a. m., reveille was sounded, and "to horse" at 2 a. m. We immediately thereafter took up our line of march in the direction of the Rapidan River, traveling in a southwesterly direction. Approaching Wolftown we met a small cavalry picket, which fled at our approach. At daylight we struck the Rapidan River at its south fork, crossing at Banks' Mill Ford without opposition, and pushing forward in the direction of Stanardsville, at which place we arrived in the direction of Orange Court-House. Passing through Stanardsville we kept a course south by west in the direction of Charlottesville, arriving at the Rivanna River about 3 p. m., crossing its south fork at Naked Run on a large bridge. Here we heard the locomotives of four different trains of cars approaching Charlottesville from the direction of Gordonsville and Orange Court-House.

About 1 1\2 miles from the river we met the enemy's cavalry pickets, which were driven in toward Charlottesville. We soon, however, met a stout force of cavalry, the enemy having mean time opened fire from three pieces of artillery. We ascertained from prisoners and citizens captured that the enemy were pretty strong, having one battalion of artillery (twenty pieces), one brigade of cavalry. The infantry had evidently just arrived by the trains above mentioned, and I am satisfied by the reports of prisoners that there was no infantry at Charlottesville an hour before our arriving at Rivanna River.

Captain Ash, of the Fifth U. S. Cavalry, with 65 men, was sent to the left in the direction of the enemy's guns to reconnoiter. He charge the enemy's artillery camp, driving them back, and succeeded in capturing 6 caissons and 2 artillery forges, which he destroyed. He then burned their camp and camp equipage, &c. Heavy columns of infantry then appearing, Captain Ash was recalled. He joined the command, having met with no loss, 1 man being slightly wounded. We then recrossed the river, burned the bridge, and also destroyed a large flour mill near the bridge. During the day we had captured 500 horses from citizens and the enemy. We found abundance of forage and provisions through the country which we had traveled. At 9 p. m. the command was halted for the purpose of feeding and resting the horses about 8 miles southwest of Stanardsville. About that time a heavy rain set in. The night was intensely dark. After resting about an hour and as half, General Custer issued orders to proceed to Stanardsville. Colonel Stedman, with 500 men, led the advance. During the darkness his command became separated from the main column and we lost our road. A halt was ordered. An aide was sent forward to halt Colonel Stedman's command, but the aide also lost the road and could not find him. Colonel Stedman in the mean time was on the right road and pushing

rapidly forward toward Stanardsville. Several parties were sent out to intercept moved forward again on the right road to Stanardsville. On our arrival there we learned that Colonel Stedman passed through the town at midnight, taking the road to Bank's Mill Ford.

About 2 miles from Stanardsville the advance guard, under the command of Captain Ash, Fifth Cavalry, came up with a rear guard of the enemy's cavalry who were following the rear of Colonel Stedman's command. As soon as they discovered our approach they charged our advance, supposing we were a small party which had been scouting and left in rear of Colonel Stedman's command. The enemy showed quite a large body of cavalry, charged our advance, drove them in rapidly to the main body. Mean time General Custer had massed his forces in a ravine out of sight of the enemy. Captain Ash fell back as far as the head of the ravine just mentioned, the enemy at the same time pouring out of the woods in large numbers. General Custer having made adequate preparations ordered a charge of his entire force. Officers and men moved forward in magnificent style, charging desperately upon the enemy, driving them back in confusion. We captured about half a dozen prisoners, and learned from them that we were fighting General Stuart with two brigades of cavalry, one brigade commanded by General Porter, commanding the section, immediately opened fire on the enemy with shell, and they immediately withdrew. The enemy had no artillery. We pressed them rapidly for about 2 miles, when we learned that we were on the wrong road; the road we were on led to Burton's Ford on the Rapidan, where the enemy had a force of infantry. I would here state that at the point from whence we made the charge the road forked, the one to the right running about due north to Burton's Ford, the one which the enemy had retreated on, while the other to the left running northeast direct to Banks' Mill Ford, the one we should have taken at the forks. General Custer, as soon as he ascertained this circumstance, ordered his command back to take the Bank's Mill road. The enemy followed our rear, but showed no disposition to renew the attack. We destroyed another large mill, containing flour, about 2 miles before reaching Bank's Mill Ford. We crossed the ford without further molestation and proceeded toward Madison Court-House. At the ford we destroyed Bank's Mill, containing flour and corn-meal. About 5 miles from Madison Court-House we met Colonel Stedman's command of 500 men, they having arrived at Wolftown about daylight that morning; having heard our guns about 11 a. m., the colonel moved his command in the direction of Burton's Ford, where he saw the cavalry and infantry above mentioned. Colonel Stedman had a slight skirmish with the enemy on the north side of the river near Burton's Ford, but withdrew his command and proceeded in the direction of Madison Court-House, where we overtook him.

The whole command arrived at Madison Court-House before dark on the evening of the 1st of March, having captured 500 horses, between 50 and 60 prisoners (most, however, being citizens).

We met with no loss with the exception of half a dozen men slightly wounded, and they rode their horse into Madison Court-House. We knew of 3 of the enemy who were killed, and several wounded, the enemy having left them on the field.

I am under the impression that if we had a brigade of infantry in light marching order, between Bank's Mill Ford and Stanardsville, we could have captured the enemy's force sent out to intercept us. All inquiries failed to elicit any information as to the whereabouts of General Kilpatrick. I am satisfied that the forces we met knew nothing of his movements.

I left the command at Madison Court-House about 8 o'clock in the evening and arrived at these headquarters at 2 a. m. on the morning of the 2nd.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEO. W. YATES,

First Lieutenant and Aide-de-Camp.