HDQRS. DETACHMENT SEVENTH ARMY CORPS,
Little Rock, Ark., April 11, 1864.

Major-General STEELE,

Commanding Department:

GENERAL: Yours of the 7th, from Elkin's Ferry, is received. I rejoice at your success, and do most sincerely hope that you may drive the enemy before you and gain victories in every engagement. I am rejoiced that the Fiftieth Indiana has sustained its reputation and the honor of our flag and the State; and, general, I know that they will continue to do so. They can be relied upon in any emergency. They will never falter, nor will they be defeated. Sorry to hear of General Rice's sanguinary mishap; hope he may escape in future. General, I regret that I am not with you. I would rather be your orderly than be here. I am doing the best I can under the circumstances. I regret that you have deemed it necessary to give confidential instructions to your assistant adjutant-general, denier resort. I will do nothing except what is right, demanded by the circumstances or the good of the public service, and I will act as my judgment and the requirements of the service dictate and demand. I will treat all citizens with due kindness, and administer affairs for their good and for the advancement of our cause and the good of the Government.

The trains with supplies are dispatched with the utmost promptness. I sent forward all the troops belonging to the commands with you. I have trouble with General Blunt; he has seized and holds all the transportation at Fort Smith. I have directed Colonel Judson to take it by force, if necessary. The rebels are thick near Fort Smith and above Dardanelle. Outpost at Roseville was attacked a few days ago, but the enemy was repulsed with loss. The forces at Clarksville were also attacked, but repulsed the enemy. The force of rebels on the south side of the river are Texans and Missourians, under command of some brigadier-general of Texas. I send with the train a detachment of Third Iowa Cavalry.

Lieutenant-Colonel Caldwell, of that regiment, is here with an order from the War Department, for all men of the Third Iowa in this command, as also is Lieutenant-Colonel Stuart, of Tenth Illinois, to go to Nashville. I hope that the officers and men of the Third Iowa and Tenth Illinois may be returned with the train. The Fifty-fourth Illinois has been detained in Illinois by order of General Grant for a few days.

Four companies of the Third Minnesota, have been detailed at Cairo by General Brayman. I have not more than force enough to defend this post and the railroad and the depot at Devall's Bluff. My cavalry is nothing. More force is needed at Fort Smith and points between this and Fort Smith. I will visit McRae again, and, I think, will get him. I have closed all the liquor shops and forbid the sale of liquors, and ordered all gamblers, loafers, and other persons having no proper means of support, and who are non-residents, to leave the boundaries of my commands. The Legislature assembled to-day, but there was not a quorum; there will be in a day or two. Major Green and I will have no misunderstanding nor will I have any with any of your staff officers remaining here. I will do my duty and allow no one to interfere. I am made responsible for the welfare of this command and the safety of all here, and I will govern accordingly.

I would prefer to be in the field, and ask you to relieve me from this command if my course is not acceptable. I cannot feel satisfied that it is necessary for a staff officer to have confidential instructions to issue orders as denier resort, or control or countermand my orders. If I do wrong, I am willing to be reproved and have my conduct investigated. I am either capable of commanding and worthy of confidence or I am not. If not, I wish to be relieved. Brigadier-General West is here, under report to you. Inclosed you will find copies of orders* from these headquarters; also communications* from Major Green and my reply. I find it necessary to control the issuing of passes, and absolutely necessary to prohibit the sale of liquors and send away all loafers and gamblers, and will, if permitted, protect all citizens, preserve the peace, promote the welfare of the people, and advance the cause of the country. No one will have cause to complain except such are dangerous, and who should not be allowed to [remain] with or near the armies. The classes I have enumerated in general orders. I sincerely wish that success may continue to attend you and the army, and that the rebels may be completely annihilated.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

NATHAN KIMBALL,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.