HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, April 8, 1864.

COLONEL: I have the honor to submit herewith the reports of Brigadier-General Kilpatrick and subordinate officers on the recent expedition organized form this army with a view to effect the liberation of our prisoners in Richmond:

About the middle of February, when in Washington, I was informed by the honorable Secretary of War that his Excellency the President was very anxious to have his amnesty proclamation distributed within the enemy's lines, and that he had sent for Brigadier-General Kilpatrick to confer with him on the practicability of accomplishing this object in connection with a cavalry expedition.

On my return to camp General Kilpatrick submitted, through the chief of cavalry, his project hereto annexed (marked A). Having ascertained from reliable sources that Richmond was comparatively defenseless, having only about 3,000 local militia with some field batteries and a small force of cavalry, and that Hampton's division of cavalry, numbering not more than 1,500 men, were the only troops of Lee's army at Fredericksburg and between there and Richmond, I thought it practicable by a rapid and secret movement that Richmond, I thought it practicable by a rapid and secret movement that Richmond might be carried by a coup de main, and our prisoners released before re-enforcements from either Petersburg or Lee's army could reach there. Instructions were accordingly given to General Kilpatrick (marked B). *

At the same time to Sixth Corps, Major-General Sedgwick, was advanced to Madison Court-House, and a cavalry command, 1,500 strong, under Brigadier-General Custer, pushed toward Charlottesville, in advance of Kilpatrick's movement, to distract the enemy's attention and prevent the detachment of any force toward Richmond. It is believed these plans succeeded perfectly so far as deceiving the enemy. General Kilpatrick reached Richmond and move down the south bank, and before reaching the vicinity of Richmond he detached Major Hall with 450 men to attack a force of the enemy near Ashland.

On reaching the city General Kilpatrick found himself opposed by infantry and artillery, which, in his judgment, rendered any attempt at forcing an entrance extremely hazardous. He accordingly made no serious attempt to enter, but, after some slight and insignificant skirmishing, withdrew his command and hurriedly make his way to Williamsburg.

Colonel Dahlgren, having been deceived by his guide, was unable to cross the James, but, following down the left bank, endeavored to enter Richmond about the time of the withdrawal of Kilpatrick. Dahlgren pushed forward vigorously, but the night overtaking him and hearing nothing from Kilpatrick, whose guns he had heard early in the afternoon, he withdrew and attempted to rejoin the main body. The next day Dahlgren became separated from his command, and being ambushed near King and Queen Court-House himself fell mortally wounded, and the small force with him (some 70 or 80 men) fell into the hands of the enemy. The rest of his detachment, under the command of Captain Mitchell, New York cavalry, after encountering numerous bodies of the enemy, succeeded in rejoining Kilpatrick's main force at Tunstall's Station, on the York River Railroad.

Captain Mitchell's report is herewith submitted, and attention called to the admirable manner in which he handled his small command.

The report of Brigadier-General Custer, whose expedition to the vicinity of Charlottesville was perfectly successful, is also transmitted herewith. *

On the return of Brigadier-General Kilpatrick, I caused a thorough inspection of his command to be made, and submit herewith the report of the inspection, showing the number of horses lost and disabled, together with the number of lost arms and equipments.

I also forward a nominal list of the killed, wounded, and missing in General Kilpatrick's command. It is believed the number of killed (2) and wounded (12) will be increased when the missing are finally accounted for. There were no casualties in General Custer's command.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEO. G. MEADE,

Major-General, Commanding.

Colonel E. D. TOWNSEND,

Assistant Adjutant-General.