HDQRS. CLINGMAN'S BRIGADE, March 17, 1864.

MAJOR: I have been prevented from complying with the order in the circular of the 21st ultimo from the fact that at the time it was received by me one of the regiments (the Eighth) was detached from my command, and it was not until this morning that I was able to obtain the statement of its casualties required. As I was compelled to give a full report of casualties, and state particularly whether I lost any prisoners, I was compelled to delay the report. In obedience to orders received during the previous night, on the morning of the 29th of January last I, with two regiments of my brigade (the Eighth, commanded by Colonel H. M. Shaw, and the Fifty-first, by Colonel H. McKethan), took the railroad trains for Kinston, N. C., at which place I arrived on the evening of the 30th, and advanced 5 miles toward New Berne.

In obedience to orders from Major-General Pickett, on the next day I followed with my command General Hoke's brigade, which was in the advance of the column, and rest for a part of the night about 12 miles this side of New Berne.

Having been ordered to follow immediately General Hoke's command and support him, on the morning of February 1, I moved forward with my command. Owing to the delay at Batchelder's Creek and to the darkness of the night, I, with the front of my command, passed the rear of General Hoke's, which was resting on the right side of the road. While in this position, within 200 or 300 yards of the creek, Colonel Shaw, who was with me at the head of his regiment, was instantly killed by one of the enemy's shots from the opposite side of the stream. This most unfortunate casualty rendered it necessary that Lieutenant Colonel J. M. Whitson should assume the command of the regiment. When at a late hour the passage of Batchelder's Creek had been effected, my command followed General Hoke's closely until we reached the point where the railroad was intersected by the road along which we had been advancing. I them received orders from Major-General Pickett to take the advance and move along the road, to be followed and supported by General Hoke's brigade. I was merely instructed to be particularly on my guard against any attack that might be made on my left from the direction of the town of New Berne, and General Hoke, having been previously acquainted with the localities there, was instructed to accompany me. After moving along the road until within nearly a mile of the town, my brigade merged to the right, keeping a direction nearly parallel to the line of the enemy' fortifications on the front of the town. The enemy were not encountered until we had advanced to a position within 600 or 800 yards of the Trent road. There they were in position with a regiment of cavalry and some field artillery, supported also by what appeared to be a small infantry force ont heir rear to the city. Their cavalry dashed forward to charge us, but were repulsed by my skirmishers without getting near enough to receive the volley of the brigade. Their field pieces then opened upon us, chiefly with spherical case-shot, but the men were directed to lie down, and there being a little swell in the ground in front, little or no injury was sustained by us. Their cavalry started forward several times, but whenever our line rose to its feet they halted and retired. Thinking it advisable to attack the enemy and drive them within the fortifications of the town, and occupy the Trent road, I requested General Hoke to bring up his brigade to my support, it being then nearly a mile to the rear. He returned for that purpose, but after waiting nearly an hour without hearing from him, I sent two of my staff in succession to request that at least a section of artillery should be brought up to my assistance. While in this position the heavy batteries of Fort Totten opened on us. As this fortress, represented to be the strongest in the town of New Berne, and armed with not less than fifteen guns of large caliber, was not more than three-quarters of a mile distant, and had a complete enfilading fire on us, had their practice been good we must have sustained serious injury; in point of fact, however, their fire proved nearly harmless. After retaining this position for two or three hours, I was informed that the artillery could not be brought forward. General Hoke did not come up with his command, and I was soon after ordered to retire. As, in addition to the fire of the heavy batteries, we were confronted with the enemy's cavalry, field artillery, and infantry, I withdrew my command slowly by sections, and occupied successively such positions as would enable us to repel an attack if suddenly made by the cavalry.

it gives me great pleasure to be able to state that, though exposed on the flank and front to artillery fire and threatened constantly with attack by the enemy's cavalry and infantry, the troops under my command performed the movements ordered with as much coolness and precision as I ever saw them when on drill.

After retiring, I was instructed to occupy the ground in front of the railroad crossing, within the range of the enemy's fire from the forts, and on each night of our bivouacking there I sent forward for the distance of 1 mile strong detachments to guard against any attack that the enemy might make. In obedience to orders, these detachments were withdrawn about 1 o'clock on the morning of the 3rd, and my brigade returned with the rest of the command to the vicinity of Kinston.

The casualties in my brigade were small in number, but the loss of Colonel Shaw in deeply to be deplored. Equally remarkable for his attention to all the duties of his position and for the coolness, self-possession, and courage in the field, I know no one filling a similar station whose loss would inflict a greater injury to the service than that sustained in his fall.

In conclusion, I have to state that there was not a single instance of desertion or straggling from my command during the expedition, and every officer and private seems to have acted creditably on all occasions.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours, &c.,

T. L. CLINGMAN,

Brigadier-General.
