FEBRUARY 1-3, 1864.-Expedition from Madisonville to Franklinton, La., and vicinity.

Report of Brigadier General Cuvier Grover, U. S. Army.

HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES,
Madisonville, La., February 5, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to report as follows: I sent out a cavalry scout of 120 men, under Captain Grinder, Third Maryland Cavalry, on the 1st instant, with instructions to go as far as Franklinton, La., and to capture, if possible, any small party which they might find there, and return by a more westerly route, and scout through the country between the Tchefuncta and the Tangipahoa Rivers, for the purpose of picking up any small parties of the enemy which were supposed to be gathering the driving off cattle from that neighborhood, and also for the purpose of picking up cattle and other animals for our own use. The above-mentioned scouts crossed the Tchefuncta River at Pend Mills, on the bridge which is not yet destroyed, and struck the Franklinton road about 10 miles from the mills. The reconnaissance reached Franklinton about 4 p. m., but found he planking of the bridge taken up for some distance, the people having information of the advance about one-half hour before the arrival. Captain Grinder, however, repaired the bridge sufficiently to cross, and occupied the town for about an hours. He learned that there had been a small party of cavalry and 5 officers there; also that the county court was in session upon his approach to the town, and that the information which was received at Franklinton, just previous to the arrival of Captain Grinder, alone prevented the capture of the party and the judges of the court. Before dark Captain Grinder withdrew from the town, and camped about 2 miles this side of the Bogue Chitto.

Map.

The next day Captain Grinder's command moved to the place of Colonel Edwards, which is wrongly laid down on the map on the east side of the Tchefuncta, if being in fact on the west side. Nothing of any consequence occurred during the day, but some few cattle were picked up and driven along. Here Captain Grinder was joined by 100 men under Captain Bery, of the same regiment, who was sent out on the morning of the 2nd to strike over on the Tangipahoa, and follow it up, to watch the crossings as high up as Lanier's place to prevent the escape of any party who might be driven in front of Captain Grinder's party. Captain Bery discovered a party of mounted men about 6 miles from here early in the morning, and caused them to be pursued until they abandoned their horses and took into the swamps, where further pursuit was useless. This party then followed up the east side of the Tanginpahoa to Lanier's place, where they discovered 15 more of the enemy belonging to Captain Baddeau's company and pursued them into the river. Two of the horses were captured and 5 were shot as they were trying to swim the river. It is not know that any of the enemy were wounded. In the course of the day Lieutenant Moore, Third Maryland Cavalry, with a small party, captured Captain Addison, of the Sixteenth Louisiana Volunteers, who was formerly a conscript officer, but, as his papers whew, more lately on recruiting service. This officer was captured at the hose of Mr. Kincaid, about 8 miles southeast from Hennen's.

On the 3rd, both scouts returned without being able to find any other parties of the enemy, and without further adventure. Captain Grinder's scout brought in as follows: Eight horses, 8 mules, 3 yoke oxen, 9 shotguns, and 1,000 rounds of buck cartridges, 130 cattle, and 76 sheep. Captain Bery's party brought in 7 horses, 4 mules and 26 cattle. The cattle and sheep are very poor, hardly worth driving, and the most of them were turned outside of the lines as useless. They are, nevertheless, the best the country affords.

There is no enemy within our reach except small roving parties. The nearest camps I can hear definitely of are at Brandon, Miss., near Greensburg, La., and at Whitestown, Miss.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

C. GROVER,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.

[Major JOHN LEVERING,]

Asst. Adjt. General, hdqrs. Defenses of New Orleans, La.