SPECIAL ORDERS,
 HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF ARIZONA, No. 37.
 La Mesa, September 8, 1862.

I. The understanding, by virtue of his office as commander of the U. S. troops occupying that portion of the Territory of New Mexico which lies south of Fort Thorn, hereby appoints the following civil officers for the Eighth precinct of the county of Dona Ana, comprising La Mesa and vicinity:

Eugenio Moreno, alcalde; Juan Zenobia Cadena, mayor domo de las aguas; Jose de la Luz Jiron, constable, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the undersigned, or at that of his successor in command, during good behavior and until the time when the civil authorities shall replace the military authorities within the county of Dona Ana. They shall be sworn by a competent officer to the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices, and shall be subject to trial by a military commission and punishment for malfeasance in office.

II. The civil code of New Mexico shall govern these officers in the administration of justice. The alcalde shall have jurisdiction in civil cases involving no larger sum than $50, and he shall have power to levy and collect fines not exceeding the sum of $20 in any one case for misdemeanors; he shall also have the power to pass sentences of imprisonment for a term not exceeding forty days. They mayor domo de las aguas will be governed in the exercise of his authority by the existing laws of New Mexico in reference to acequias. Both officers shall keep account of the moneys received, subject to the inspection of the military authorities.

III. It shall be the duty of the alcalde to arrest and send to Mesilla for trial by the military authorities all persons charged with crimes that by the laws of New Mexico are punishable by sentences of greater extent than the amount and term named in the foregoing section.

IV. Delinquents who fail to pay the fines assessed by the alcalde and mayor domo de las aguas shall be confined at hard labor for such number of days as shall suffice, at the rate of 50 cents per day, to liquidate the amount of the fine imposed. All persons sentenced by the alcalde to more than fifteen days' imprisonment shall be sent to Mesilla and be there confined furing the term of their sentence.

V. Appeals from the judgments of the alcalde or mayor domo de las aguas may be taken through these headquarters to a military commission. These judgments may be annulled by said commission, but if confirmed the term of imprisonment or fine imposed upon the appellant shall be increased one-fourth in time or amount.

J. R. WEST,

Colonel First Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding.

NOTE. -Eugenio Moreno, Juan Zenobia Cadena, and Jose de la Luz Jiron were duly sworn before me to the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices at Mesilla this 10th day of September, 1862.

J. R. W.