[Inclosure.]

HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES,
Matagorda Peninsula, January 22, 1864.

Major General E. O. C. ORD,

Commanding Thirteenth Corps, New Orleans:

We are greatly crippled here for want of proper facilities for transportation on our inland waters and of lightening vessels which arrive at the anchorage off the bar (some 4 miles by the channel), and which cannot come in. We have here now two small high pressure boars which cannot carry a great load, especially when batteries, troops, or wagons and animals are concerned. They are both so much worn ou as to need constant repaired, and if by accident one of them gets aground, as one of them has been now for four days, we are completely, as the sailors say, on our beam-ends. Besides these (the Planter and Matamoras), there is the Warrior, entirely unserviceable until her boilers are repaired, and now used only as a wharf-boat; and a propeller tug, called the Tyler, which draws so much water that she can neighed come over the bar or approach within three-quarters of a mile of the shore at Indianola except when the tide is well up. We have used her for towing a schooner back and forth to and from Indianola, the only means of transportation to that place which we have had at command for ten days.

The Matamoras been laid up for two days patching her boilers, and is still out of use. In these salt waters it is absolutely necessary for a high-pressure boat to clean out her boilers every two or three days; otherwise they are not safe, and in burning coal they are fast becoming seriously damaged. Neither of the high-pressure boats here are really safe. Should it at any time be necessary to hurry troops from here to Indianola or elsewhere, or from there here, or even across the pass here from one side to another, or to communicate rapidly with dispatches, we are unable to do it. The Continental, a steamer too heavy to come over the bar, is now in here fourth day at her anchorage outside, and not one-fourth of here cargo removed from her. There is a boat there which had been there ten days, and is still unloaded. A new large steamer, supposed to be the belvedere, appears there this morning; she cannot come in. We have had tides 2 and 3 feet below the average for the last six days.

Five hundred of the enemy were reported at dark last night on Matagorda Island, 10 miles below Fort Esperanza. I immediately stopped unloading the Corinthian, and sent over the Fifteenth Maine to re-enforce the garrison. I shall throw more troops across to operate against us there. We must hold that point. It is now four days since I ordered the Seventeenth Ohio Light Battery and one 30-pounder Parrott to Indianola. We have thus far been able to move only on heavy piece and a section of the battery without animals. Should it be necessary, as it will be sooner or later, to our flank the enemy by movements over inland waters, we have not be means of carrying now more than 1,000 infantry, without artillery or cavalry, and could not land in half an hour over half that force. To do this we would have to use the pontoons, as I did to carry the 30-pounder to Indianola. We have here only ten pontoons.

When the Warrior is repaired she will be our most useful boat, as she can carry more than both the others together. I am informed that before my arrival here a master of transportation was sent down here by Colonel Holabird to manage the water transportation. One is of the greatest necessity, as none of our quartermasters are sailors and they can all be deceived by the officers on transports. This master transportation, not liking the fix of things here, remarked that he done here, and he left. Captain Garber informs me that he carried an estimate for the repair of the Warrior with him to New Orleans, but nothing has been heard of him yet. Captain G informs me also that he had within a day or two received invoices of material for that purpose, viz, some rivets, tools, and small articles, but the article of which boilers are made, to wit, boiler iron, is not mentioned in the list.

I must have two or three efficient quartermasters, live men, and who have some rank. Men who can be made use of nowhere and who have been changed around from place to place to be got rid of by every one who had had them heretofore are of no service. I do not want them, and if they come, shall give them nothing to do. I would prefer to detail some energetic private from the ranks on extra duty for the duty. If I could get some offices of the quartermaster's department who can do a little duty in the field as assiduously and incessantly as they do it in their easy chairs in some of our large cities I would like it. I am happy to inform you that I have no complaints whatever to make against the subsistence department. I have had the good fortune to be ably and efficiently served by those officers who have been with me.

"To him that hatch much, more shall be given." I have a large number of crafts which are very indifferent, as I have reported above, and I now ask, in addition to men capable of managing them, to be supplied liberally with the means of mending them, and also with two powerful river steamers of not over 3 feet draught, capable of carrying large numbers of troops and animals, and which, by coming out of the mouth of the Mississippi after a norther, can safely reach here, and one propeller of power and not over 7 feet draught when she has her coal on board. I am informed that the captain of the Planter has gone to New Orleans to sell his boat to the quartermaster. If she is taken at his valuation the Government will probably be swindled.

I have the honor to remain, with much respect,

N. J. T. DANA,

Major-General.