HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF KANSAS,
Fort Leavenworth, January 23, 1864.

Colonel WOODSON,

Provost-Marshal, Saint Joseph:

DEAR COLONEL: I am in receipt of yours of the 19th instant concerning the conduct of persons in Elwood, Kans., in regard to horse thieves who cross to this side of the Missouri. I send an officer, Major Hunt, with large discretionary powers, to act in the premises. State lines are always convenient for thieves and I hope to help the matter. Last year, by arranging military districts, officers could act promptly on either side. As now arranged we must rely on common sense and proper courtesy to keep up harmonious action and preserve the peace of the border. My officers are already instructed to co-operate with those of adjoining departments, and the officer at Elwood should have taken up the matter of which you speak. I will so inform him. The conduct of the Elwood citizens seems to be a military offense, and, being on this side, will be easily redressed.

If you resort to civil process as you propose against horse thieves, delays of justice and State lines are the more difficult. If I catch horse thieves with my soldiers, I will try to make summary and certain punishment a greater terror to rogues. You may rely [upon it that] I will do all in my power to prevent border strife and sectional animosities, and I hope you will use your efforts to the same purpose. There is no reason for it; we are all in the same purpose. There is no reason for it; we are all in the same boat. There is not enough of the negro left to quarrel about, and I am not going to allow loyalty to be a license for horse stealing. If you hear news of any corrupt design on the part of persons on your side of the river, I trust you will give timely notice to my officers, and I will instruct my officers to give you like timely notice. But we will try to suppress the design at home and stifle mischief in the bud.

I am, colonel, very truly, your obedient servant,

S. R. CURTIS,

Major-General, Commanding

P. S.- Since writing the above I have seen Lieutenant D. W. Wallingford, who commanded at Elwood at the time mentioned; he gives me a very different version of the quarrel between Sela and your sergeant. I desire the lieutenant to accompany Major Hunt to aid in properly adjusting the matter.