HEADQUARTERS NAVAJO EXPEDITION,
Fort Canby, N. Mex., March 6, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to report, for the information of the general commanding, that on the 4th instant I dispatched from this post en route to Bosque Redondo 2,103 Navajo Indians. Captain John Thompson, First Cavalry, New Mexico Volunteers, went in charge of the escort and Indians. The escort consisted of the men re-enlisted as veteran volunteers (5 non-commissioned officers and 22 privates) and 2 non-commissioned offices and 23 privates of Company K, First Cavalry, New Mexico Volunteers. Captain Thompson has orders that on his arrival at Los Pinos he will proceed with the Indians to the Bosque, taking with him as an escort the veteran volunteers and dispatching the men of Company K as escort to my transportation, which is directed to return from Los Pinos to this post. The transportation furnished was a Government train (Robinson's, late Russell's) of eight 10-mule wagons and twenty 6-mule wagons from this post. Six of these are wagons which I am directed to return to Fort Union depot; fourteen belong to and are to return to this post from Los Pinos, together with the mules of the six wagons which are to be forwarded to Union.

There are nw at the mail station, Old Fort Fauntleroy, 35 Indians, which I directed Captain Thompson to take on with him. This will make the total number under his charge 2,138, a larger number than has ever been sent at any one time before with the same amount of transportation. I have now at this post 400, which will be forwarded as soon as practicable. On the 8th instant I shall start out scouting parties. One I shall send to Chusca Valley and its vicinity; another to Canon de Chelle, Mesa de la Baca, and Callabasas, and to examine the country west of this post. The Indians who left on the 4th instant with Captain Thompson had, and took with them, 473 head of horses and 3,000 head of sheep. All seemed contented and desirous of leaving a country where they say they have no rest. Those here now are also desirous of leaving for the Bosque. If all have not come in the scouting parties which will be sent out will, I trust, very soon induce them do do so.

The party brought in by Captain McCabe, who was sent from this post on the 27th of last month, are undoubtedly a part of the band which has infested the road between this post and Fort Wingate. I shall take especial pains to see that all this party are disposed of. I have the honor to inclose herewith a copy of Captain McCabe's report, which explains itself.

Since the 20th of last month 126 Indians have died at this post, making, with those just sent to the Bosque, a reduction of 2,264 Navajoies from the population of the country. This, I am satisfied, is a larger number than could have been continued. The truce which I extended to them expired on the first of this month, and Captain McCabe was in the field to convince them of the fact. I shall keep as many troops in the field as practicable until further orders. As a matter of necessary, I sent nearly all my transportation to the river with the Indians, who had to be fed, and the longer they stayed here the lowe they reduced my commissariat. Those here now will be sent to the river within ten days. I have sufficient transportation on hand now to enable me to push the war vigorously in this vicinity. In this country men re-enlisting cannot get the benefits of the furlough granted to veteran volunteers in the States. For that reason I directed Captain Thompson to proceed to he Bosque with the veteran volunteers as a reward to them, and to compensate for the furlough which it is impossible to grant them in this county. I trust that my policy and manner of conducting operations against the Navajoes since the departure of Colonel Carson will meet with the approval of the department commander.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

A. B. CAREY,

Captain, Thirteenth Infantry, Commanding.

Captain BENJAMIN C. CUTLER,

Assistant Adjutant-General.