HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, Grand Ecore, La., April 17, 1864.

Lieutenant Commander THOMAS O. SELERIDGE,
On board U. S. S. Osage:

SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of you communication of thais date. On the 15th I had an interview with Admiral Porter, in which our position was fully discoursed, but did not know that he was to leave this post. In reference to the operations of the army, I can only say at present that we are here under instructions from the Government to move upon Shreveport in co-operation with the forces of General Steele. General Steele fails to co-operate with us, as far as we can learn, and thus far renders us no assistance. I have sent to him by the way of Little Rock, and requested him to join us upon the line of the river, where we can move forward in column against the enemy. With to co-operation of his forces our occupation of Shreveport ins certain and immediate.

It is impossible to say at his time whether we shall receive that co-operation or not. Until it is ascertained definitely that this part of the plan of the Government at Washington will fail us, and that my force is insufficient to advance farther upon this line against the enemy, who appears to be in full force, I shall entertain no thought of a retrograde movement; certainly not if it leaves the navy in any danger. No such purpose is contemplated now. I have sent for all the troops that can be gathered from my own department to move to this point immediately. I have also requested, as I have said, the co-operation of General Steele. Government Hall, of Missouri, who is here, expresses great interest in the success of this campaign, and will do all he can to send forces from Missouri, which he says can be spared form that State. If this assistance fails, I can then determine what course to pursue; until then, it is my purpose to maintain my position.

Had I known you to have been in command, or that Admiral Porter was absent, I should have sought an interview with you upon the subject embraced in your letter. In my interview with the admiral he expressed the utmost confidence in the rise of the river, and did not speak upon the subject of the withdrawing either of his vessels or the troops. His last suggestion to me was, that it would be imprudent for me to advance until the river should rise. I will take early occasion to explain to you in person my view of the situation of our affairs.

I have the honor to be, with much respect, your obedient servant,

N. P. BANKS,

Major-General, Commanding.