Numbers 3. Report of Major Edward B. Willis, First California Infantry, of operations in Arizona.

HEADQUARTERS,
Fort Whipple, Ariz., February 11, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to report that since my last a party of miners, under lead of Mr. King Woolsey, followed the tracks of animals stolen from them, and overtook the Indians in the Pinal country beyond the San Francisco River. They succeeded in killing 24; a party of Maricopas at the same time killed 9. To-morrow morning I shall start in that direction accompanying Governor Goodwin. We propose to examine the country with a view to the selection of a proper site for a town in the geographical center of the Territory; also a proper location for the military post. This point, if the country meets our expectations, will undoubtedly be the capital. The commission appointed in General Ordes, No.-, have not yet selected a site for the post, not having the proper opportunities for examining the county. A party of about 75 miners will accompany this expedition, and we propose to a ford them all facilities possible in prospecting the country over which we pass, and at the same time, if possible, to strike a blow at the Indians, having at all times the main objects of the expedition in view.

There would be considerable quantities of grain sown in this vicinity this eason, but on attempting to procure seed from the Pima villages the ranchers have been forbidden by the Government agent, Mr. Allen, from purchasing a single pound. It is too late for them to send to California or New Mexico for seed, and will be a serious drawback upon this portion of Arizona. I am very much pleased with the agricultural and farming lands in this section, and respectfully request that if possible garden seed may be sent to this post as soon as practicable. We have already a small assortment, but need more. Grape cuttings, no doubt, will do extremely well here.

The people of this section are very much excited with regard to the Indian disturbances, so much so that last week, during a visit to the mines, I noticed men working with arms beside them, and it is not considered safe to leave their dwellings without them. unless immediate steps are taken to quell these Indians it will be of serious detriment to the Territory. I shall do all in my power in this direction, and respectfully request the general commanding to furnish me with his views upon their subject.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

EDWARD B. WILLIS,

Major First Infantry, California Volunteers, Commanding.

Captain BENJAMIN C. CUTLER,

Asst. Adjt. General, Santa Fe. N. Mex.

Numbers 4. Reports of Captain James H. Whitlock, Fifth California Infantry of operations in Arizona.