HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE PACIFIC,
San Francisco, October 27, 1862.

Brigadier General L. THOMAS,

Adjutant-General U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.:

GENERAL: I have served on the Pacific Coast for ten years, the last year in command of this department. My duties have called me to nearly every section of this great country; from the sunny plains of the south to the farthest bounds of our possessions in the north. I have been called, either to battle with our savage foes, or to aid in the preservation of this beautiful land from the horrors of civil war. During this long period I have had ample opportunity of judging of the character of the people and the value to the Union of these remote possessions of the United States. Previous to the war with Mexico but little comparatively was known of this country; a few of our most adventurous people had found their way across the continent and taken up their abode either in Oregon or California; but when peace was restored, and we acquired California, and coeval with that event the discovery of gold mines, extensive and almost fabulous in richness, caused a large influx of population. It was not alone from the States of our Union that the people came; every quarter of the globe, as well as the isles of the ocean, contributed to swell the number. It will thus be seen that this country was overrun and occupied by people bringing with them and retaining all their home prejudices, and ill calculated to establish a colonel of loyal citizens eager to promote the prosperity of the country. Time and contact have done much to harmonize and smooth down the discordant elements of this incongruous population, yet the outbreak of a formidable rebellion in our land had a tendency to revive those sectional sympathies and attachments, which have prompted men to glory in the fact not that they are Americans but that they are from such of such a State, to which their paramount allegiance is due.

Happily the number of men who thus ignore the authority of the Federal Government and declare their fealty to the State from which they came is small compared with thatare Americans, and who love the Union and are willing to risk their all for its preservation. Such was the character and such the division of sentiments on this coast when I assumed command of the department. I saw at once that to overcome all these threatening difficulties it was necessary to be watchful, vigilant, and firm; not create unnecessary alarm in the public mind by hasty and ill-advised acts, but to pursue the even tenor of my way, regardless of personal consequences, and feeling assured that such a course could nto fail to secure the respect of political parties of every complexion, and ultimately redound to the honor to our Government and country. If what little I have done has contributed in the smallest degree in preserving intact our glorious Union and maintaining unsullied our flag, I shall feel more than repaid. It affords me high satisfaction to inform the General-in-Chief that during all the period of my command in this department I have received the most cordial approval and assistance from the Governors and State officers, as well as from the most prominent citizens.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

G. WRIGHT,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Army, Commanding.