Numbers 4. Report of Captain Marcellus N. Moorman, C. S. Artillery, commanding Stuart Horse Artillery.

MARCH 4, 1864.

MAJOR: I have the honor to submit the following report of the part taken by this command during the recent raid of the enemy into Albermarle County, Va.:

On Monday, the 29th February, about 12. 30 p. m., Lieutenant Cunningham, of the First Virginia Cavalry, brought into camp the first intelligence of the approach of the enemy, stating that he had last seen them 2 miles south of Stanardsville, making in this direction. Camp was at once notified and pickets sent forward to Rio Bridge, 1 1\2 miles north, but before they arrived the enemy had crossed and held the bridge. At the same time a column was discovered effecting a crossing at Cook's Ford, 1 1\2 miles below. Finding it impossible to get out of camp unless some check could be given, I opened fire with a portion of the guns of each battery, while the drivers and remaining cannoneers caught up and hitched the horses, all of which were running loose. As fast as a carriage was horsed it was moved off. Thus were all of the pieces moved out and started to the rear, except four guns, which were opened from the back through camp the line of skirmishers (unarmed except of few pistols) which I had deployed in my front. Having ordered all of my guns back except two sections, I drew up behind each a mounted support, placing the remainder of those mounted, under Captains Chew and Breathed, to guard my flank and maneuver in front, making a show of cavalry, in the execution of which they deserve great credit. Just at the moment when the enemy's columns which had crossed at Cook's Ford had reached and set fire to our camp, their right, which had crossed at Rio, made a charge just in time to receive and mistake the explosion of one of Captain Chew's caissons for the reopening of our guns, for they had just ceased firing at that point. Each column mistaking the other for his enemy fired into each other and broke. Captains Chew and Breathed, seeing their mistake, charged with their squadrons and drove the enemy with such precipitancy that I presume they have never discovered their mistake, as they never ventured to return, but drew up in line upon the opposite bank waiting the advance of the Horse. They opened upon us two pieces of artillery, to which I made no reply.

Much credit is due both to officers and men for their coolness, bravery, and self-sacrifice, leaving clothing, blankets, and all for their guns.

The loss sustained was as follows: Moorman's battery, 2 men and 2 horses captured; Chew's battery, 10 sets harness, 1 limber with canteens, 1 forge, 6 tents, 5 tent-flies, 4 tarpaulins, 60 pounds axle grease, 15 curry-combs and brushes, 3 public horses, 40 Government bags; Breathed's battery, 9 tents, 2 horses, 3 1\2 sets harness; McGregor's battery, 6 sets harness, 3 tent-flies, 12 bridles, 6 saddles and blankets, 4 halters, 2 mules, 4 skillets, 2 camp-kettles, 4 water-buckets. In addition to the losses enumerated I would state that the battalion suffered heavily in private effects, especially Chew's and Breathed's batteries.

In conclusion, I would inform you that I had been engaged with the enemy an hour or more when I received the accompanying dispatch* from Major Mason.

Respectfully submitted.

M. N. MOORMAN,

Captain, Commanding Battalion Stuart Horse Artillery.

Major H. B. McCLELLAN,

Asst. Adjt. General, Cav. Corps, Army Northern Virginia.