HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
New Orleans, January 25, 1864.

Major General W. T. SHERMAN,

Commanding Fifteenth Army Corps:

GENERAL: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch of the 16th instant.* I have taken measures to give the impression of a movement against Mobile, and directed maneuvering of boats in the vicinity of Pascagoula in such a manner as to confirm this impression. The success of the movement indicated by you will be very important to our cause. I only regret that we had not been able to occupy Mobile at the close of the campaign against Vicksburg and Port Hudson. The course you have suggested in regard to the stoppage of our forage boats will be satisfactory. I do not doubt that with a knowledge of all the circumstances, all cause of complaint will be removed. The tone of the letter of the chief quartermaster is not such as I could wish or approve; but great embarrassments are occasioned to us by this interference with our boats, and has sometimes caused bad feeling.

Since receiving your dispatch General Halleck informs me that it is possible the forces on the west bank of the river in Arkansas and Louisiana, with re-enforcements from your command, may be concentrated on the Red River for the defense of Arkansas and Louisiana and offensive operations against Texas. With the forces indicated such a movement will be successful, and confer important advantages on the Government. The occupation of Shreveport will be as fatal to the troops west of the Mississippi as that of Chattanooga to the east. I earnestly hope that this co-operation may be effected. My own force is not sufficient to enable me to go to the Red River with safety, and if left to myself, I can only operate feebly, with my present command, from the coast, which would perhaps give us the control of Western Texas, but weaken us to the same extent in Louisiana, and leaving the mass of the enemy in our center. I was very glad to receive your assurances that such a movement would be acceptable to you, and hope that speedy measures may be taken to carry it into effect. I can occupy Alexandria as soon as the water in the Atchafalaya and Red Rives rises so as to enable us to use water communication.

It will give me pleasure to know if you have received communications from the Department of War upon this subject, and to what extent you will be able to assist us if the plan shall be adopted. Captain Robert T. Dunham, of my staff, will present this to you. He is an officer who can be relied upon, and I beg you will communicate to him any information that may be of service. He also bears dispatches to Major-General Steele, commanding forces in Arkansas, and will communicate to you any information he may receive from him upon this general subject. I shall lose no opportunity to give you early information of occurrences in this department as they may transpire, or of the orders I may receive from the Government at Washington.

I have the honor to be, with much respect, you obedient servant,

N. P. BANKS,

Major-General, Commanding.