HEADQUARTERS COLUMN FROM CALIFORNIA,
Santa Fe, N. Mex., September 20, 1862.

COLONEL; I wrote to you on July 22, informing you of all the important events connected with the Column from California from June 18 to that date. I then inclosed copies of General Orders, Nos. 10 and 11, from these headquarters, which prescribed the mannher in which the column should march across the desert from Tucson to the Rio Grande. I left Tucson myself on July 23; passed Colonel West, with most of the troops encamped on the San Pedro, on the 24th, and led the advance of the column from that point to Las Cruces, N. Mex., with one company of infantry and two of cavalry. From the hostile attitude of the Chiricahua Indians, I found it indispensably necessary to establish a post in what is known as Apache Pass. It is known as Fort Bowie, and garrisoned by 100 rank and file of the Fifth California Volunteer Infantry, and 13 rank and file of Company A, First California Volunteer Cavalry. This post commands the water in that pass. Around this water the Indians have been in the habit of lying in ambush and shooting troops and travelers as they came to drink. In this way they killed 3 of Lieutenant Colonel Eyre's command, and in attempting to keep Captain Roberts' First California Volunteer Infantry away from the spring a fight ensued, in which Captain Roberts had 2 men killed and 2 wounded. Captain Roberts reports that the Indians lost 10 kiffair the men of Captain Roberts' company are reported as behaving with great gallantry. Two miles beyond Apache Pass I foudn the remains of nine white men who had been murdered by the Indians. They were a party traveling from the Pino Alto mines to California. One of them had been burned at the stake; we saw the charred bones and the burnt ends of the rope by which he had been tied. The remains of seven of these men were buried on that spot. From the Rio de Sauz to Ojo de la Vaca there was a great dearth of water. At the latter place I addressed a letter to General Canby, giving him all the elements going to make up the column, the object of its march, and the wishes of General Wright. A copy of that letter is herewith inclsoed, marked A. *

Having been informed that a large number of men, women, and children were in a destitute and starving condition at Pino Alto mines, forty-odd miles northeastward from the Ojo de la Vaca, I directed Colonel West to furnish them with some subsistence stores as a gratuity. (See letter of instructions to Colonel West, marked B, and Captain Shirland's report on the starving condition of these people, marked C.) I arrived on the Rio Grande on August 7 at a point three miles above Fort Thorn, and immediately communicated with General Canby by letter, marked D. On August 9 I passed the Rio Grande at the San Diego Crossing, eighteen miles below Fort Thorn. The river was still very high and very rapid, but the men stripped off their clothes and dragged the wagons through by main force; the baggage, subsistence stores, ammunition, &c., were crossed in two small, leaky boats. Atthis point we bilt a larger and better boat for the use of the detachments of the column still to come up. The head of the column arrived at Las Cruses on August 10. Here I found the advance guard, under Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre, First California Volunteers Cavalry, strengthened by four companies of the Fifth U. S. Infantry, which has been sent down from Fort CRaig. Two companies of regular cavalry had also been sent down to re-enforce Colonel Eyre; but these has been recalled and had started back to Fort Craig on August 9.

Unfortunately Colonel Eyre had been forbidden by Colonel Chivington and Colonel Howe to proceed in the direction of Texas below Las Cruses; otherwise I believe he would have captured the whole of Steele's force of Confederate troops. (See his report* on this subject, marked E.) The energy, enterprise, and resources of Colonel Eyre, as exhibited in his rapid march from Tuscon to the Rio Grande; his crossing of that river, adn his unlooked-for presence directly upon the heels of the retreating rebels, cannot be too highly appreciated. He exhibited some of the finest qualities of a soldier, and had he not been fettered by order from higher authority than himself, he would, with out a doubt, have achieved advantages over the enemy creditable to himself and to the Column from California. But for his timely arrival on the Rio Grande, Las Cruses and Msilla would have both been laid in ashes by the enemy. Hampered as he was by orders, he nevertheless managed to hoist the Stars and Stripes upon Fort Thorn, Fort Fillmore, Mesilla, and Fort Bliss, in Texas. On August 11 General Canby wrote me a very handsome letter, in which he liberaly offered to furnish the column with all the supplies it might need, together with $30,000 subsistence funds. General Wright will be gratified to read it; it is marched F. It will be seen by that letter that the medical supplies and ordnance stores in the Department of New Mexico are so abundant as to preclude the necessity of any more of these stores being purchased or shipped in the Department of the Pacific for any of the troops east of Fort Yuma belonging to the Column from California. On Auguts 11 General canby sent to me another communication, in which he treats of the impracticability of an invasion of Texas from this direction, and in which he speaks of removing the regular troops from New Mexico and of receiving other re-enforcements from California, As the views it sets forth seem to be of great value, I submit it for the perusal of General Wright; it is marked G.

On August 12 General Canby wrote still another letter, in which he authorized me to use my own judgment in regard to the disposition of troops in Arizona and Southern New Mexico; it is marked H. My letter to General Canby, dated August 15, together with General Orders, Nos. 14 and 15, herewith inclosed will inform General Wright of the distribution of the troops along the Rio Grande. These communications are marked I. On August 16 I started with three companies of cavalry for Fort Bliss, in Texas. At the town of Franklin, opposite El Paso, I found a surgeon of the Confederate Army and twenty-five sick and disabled soldiers, whom I made prisoners of war by order of General canby. I also found that a large amount of hospital stores and quartermaster's property, which once had belonged to the United States, was in store-rooms connected with the custom-house at El Paso, in Mexico. These stores I managed to recover; there were twelve wagon loads of them. I sent them to the depot at Mesilla, which I had established. I then proceeded 100 miles farther down the valley of the Rio Grande into Texas. The object of my march was to restore confidence to the people. They had been taught by the Texans that we were coming among them as marauders and as robbers. When they found we treated them kindly and paid them a fair price for all the supplies we required their rejoiced to find, as the came under the old flag once, more, that they could now have protection and will be treated justly. The abhorrence they expressed for the Confederate troops and of the rebellion convinced me that their loyalty to the United States is now beyind question.

On August 22 the troops of the Column from California hoisted the Stars and Striped over Fort Quitman. This was done by Captain JohnC. Cremony, with his company (B. Second California Volunteers Cavalry). On the same day Captain Shirland, First California Volunteer Cavalry, was directed to proceed to Fort Davis, 140 miles still farther into Texas, and hoisted the national colors over that post. (See General Orders, Numbers 16, marked K.) How well Captain Shirland performed this duty and how gallantly he and his men behaved in a fight with the Indians will be seen by his report, a copy of which is herewith inclosed, marked L. Captain Roberts' company, which whipped the Indians in Apache Pass, is from Sacramento. Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre, who led my advance guard to the Rio Grande and hoisted the colors over Forts, Third, Fillmore, Bliss, and Mesilla, is from Sacramento, and so is Captain Shirland, who hoisted the Stars and Stripes 240 miles farther into the State of Texas, and also whipped the Indians in that neighborhood. This speaks nobly for the men from that city. I inclose a telegraphic communication from General Canby to the Adjutant-General of the Army, dated August 10, in which he requests that a regiment more of infantry and five companies of cavalry be sent into the Department of New Mxico from California, so as to relieve the regular troops now here it is marked M. On August 21 I was instructed to arrange the affairs of the District of Arizona so as to turn over that district to have officer next in rank to myself, and to hold myself in readines to repair to the headquarters Department of New Mexico. I also received Special Orders, Numbers 148, from the headquarters of that department, directing me to send and officer as bearer of dispatches to the commander of the Department of the Pacific. Copies of these documents are herewith inclosed, Marked N.

On September 2 I received Special Orders, Numbers 153 (marked O), directing me to relieve Brigadier-General Canby in the command of the Department of New Mexico. Previous to this order I had published General Orders, Numbers 17, which posted a company of infantry at Franklin, Tex., and another one at Hart's Mill, Tex. It is herewith inclosed, marked P. On September 1 I put the texan prisoners of was whom I found at Franklin on their parole, and sent them on their way to San Antonio, tex., Escorted by Company D, First California Volunteer Cavalry. (See my letter to the commanding officer of the Confederate forces, San Antonio, Tex., marked Q.) I then returned to Las Cruses, N. Mex., where I published General Orders, Numbers 20 (marked R), regulating the affairs of the District of Arizona and transferring the command of that district to Colonel Joseph R. West, First California Volunteers Infantry. (I still retain the command of the Column from California, and shall cause all the reports which you require in your letter to me, dated at San Francisco, May 30, to be sent to the headquarters Department of the Pacific, until I am otherwise ordered by competent authority.) I then proceeded to Santa Fe, arriving here on the 16th instant.

General Canby relinquished the command of the Department of New Mexico on the 18th instant. (See General Orders, Numbers 83, marched S.) I assumed command of the department on the same day. (See General Orders, Numbers 84, marked T.) Some additional changes have been made of the troops pertaining to the Column from California, which are indicated in a letter to Colonel West, dated September 8 (marked U), and in another dated September 9 (marked V); also two others, dated September 14 (marked W and X, respctively). I inclose for your information three communications (marked Y). * I also inclose a copy of an order directing Lieutenant Colonel Edward E. Eyre, First California Volunteer Cavalry, to bear these dispatches to the headquarters Department of the pacific; it is marked us communications will give General Wright a pretty good idea of the operations of the troops composing the Column from California from July 22, of this year, to the present time.

I find that the supply of provisions in this department is adequate to the wants of all the troops from California now serving here, and therefore respectfully recommend that no more subsistence stores be purchased for the Column from California until further advices on this subject. I propose to transport from Fort Yuma to Tucson during the cool weather of the fall and winter a large quantity of subsistence stores now in excess at the former post, so as to provide for the contingency of other troops being ordered to New Mexico from California; to provide for the troops already stationed in Arizona, and to form a magazine in case of any reverses here which may lead to the destruction of our present stores or oblige the California or other troops to retire toward the Pacific. When these supplies have been accumulated at Tuscon by a train now employed for that purpose that train will be required for service in this department; meantime it can be used as transportation from Fort Yuma to the Rio Grande for any troops which General Wright may order from the Department of the pacific into Arizona or New Mexico.

The Southern Overland Mail Route has been opened, and the military posts in Arizona, Southern New Mexico, and Northwestern Texas have been reoccupied by troops composing the Column from California. Thus far the instructions of the general commanding the Department of the Pacific have been carried out. It was no fault of the troops from California that the Confederate forces fled before them. It is but just to say that their having thus fled is mainly to be attributed to the gallantry of the troops under General Canby's command. That they were hurried in their flight by the timely arrival of the advance guard of the Column from California, under Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre, there cannot be a doubt. The march from the PAcific to the Rio Grande by the Column from California was not accomplished without immense toil and great hardships or without many privations and much suffering from heat and want of water. The amount of labor performed by Colonel Joseph R. West, the second in command, was immense and of the greatest practical importance,. Much of our success was dependent on his energy, perseverance, cheerfulness, and high soldierly qualities. I cannot too strongly recommend that this officer be promoted to the grade of brigadier-general of colunteers as a reward for these services, and particularly as he now commands the most important district in this department. I trust that General Wright will urge the necessity of this advancement of Colonel West, and set forth to the General-in-Chief his eminent fitness for the office of brigadier-General. This will promote Lieutenant-Colonel Rigg, which will be a reward for his important services as commanding officer at Fort Yuma during the past winter and for his efficient labors in the column while crossing the Great Desert. I regard Colonel Riggs as one of the finest, soldiers in the Columns from California. Thosewho knew the troops from Califnornia as I knew them will consider this a high compliment.

Lieutenant Colonel Edward E. Eyre, First California Volunteer Cavalry, deserves a regiment. The zeal he has manifested in the discharge of his duties and the alacrity and cheerfulness he has always shown when when called upon for any hazardous enterprise distinguished him as one eminently fitted for the profession of arms. If five companies more of cavalry are to be sent from California, as requested by General Canby, I trust they will be added to the five which now compose the First California Volunteer Cavalry, and that Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre will be commissioned as full colonel. The services of Major Coult, Fifth Califonia Volunteer Infantry, and of Major Fergusson, First California Volunteer Cavalry, and of Major McMullen, First Califonia Volunteer Infantry, have been most ardurous and are edeserving of reward. The officers and men of the Second Califonia Volunteer Cavalry and of the Fifth California Volunteer Infantry shared alike in all the privations and toil encountered by the First California Volunteer Infantry and the First California Volunteer Cavalry. As soldiers, patient, energetic, and patriotic. If I should select the names of some of them to be rewarded for these high qualities, it would be an invidious distinction. Captain John B. Shinn and First Lieutenant Franklin Hardwood, of the Third U. S. Artillery, for their incessant toil by night and by day to bring the battery of light artillery which is attached to the Column from california through the Yuma and Gila Deserts, should each receive the comliment of a brevet - Captain Shinn to be brevetted as major and First Lieutenant Hardwood as captain. Unless these young men are rewarded by a compliment of this kind I shall always feel that the passageof a battery of light artillery of light artillery, always in fighting condition, over such an inhospitable waste, in the midst of the heats of summer, is a matter of such trivial importance in the profession of arms as not to be worthy of notice. Theirs was the first battery that ever crossed the desesert. I am sure that he who crosses the next one will be considered an accomplished soldier. I trust that General Wright will call the attention of the General-in-Chief to the credit which is eminetly die these young gentleman for my adjutant-general, Lieutenant Benjamin C. Cutler; for my medical director, Surg. James M. McNulty, and for my regimental quartermaster, First Lieutenant La Fayette Hammond, all of the First California Volunteer Infantry. Their merits are too well known at the headquarters Departmentof the Pacific to need any further words of commendation from myself.

In conlusion, I beg to thank General Wright for the confidence he always reposed in me. In carrying out his orders and instructions I have endeavored to do my best, yet, as it was a new and very extended field of operations, my judgment about what was best to be done under emergencies as they arose was doubtless not always of the soundest character; yet I feel that General Wright has kindly overlooked all imperfections of this nature, and saved me the pain of many rebukes, which no doubt I have deserved. For this I feel very grateful. The march of the Column from California in the summer months across the Great Desert, in the driest season that has ever beed known for thirty years, is a military achievement creditable to the soldiers of the American Army; but it would not be just to attribute the success of this march to any ability on my part. That success was gained only by the high physical and moral enrgies of that peculiar class of officers and men who composed the Column from california. With any other troops I am sure I should have failed. I send you a set of colors which have been borne by this column. They were hoisted by Colonel West on Forts Vreckinridge and Buchanan, and over Tuscon, Ariz.,; by Colonel Eyer over Forts Thirn and Fillmore, and over Mesilla, N. Mex., and over Fort Bliss, in Texas. They were hoisted by Captain Cremory over Fort Quitman, and by Captain Shirland over Fort Davis, in Texas; and thus again have those places been consectrated to our beloved country.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

JAMES H. CARLETON,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Army, Commanding.

Lieutenant Colonel RICHARD C. DRUM,

Asst. Adjt. General, U. S. Army, San Francisco, Cal.