On the 22nd of July, 1861, the President of the United States approved "An act to authorize the employment of volunteers to aid in enforcing the laws and protecting public property. " Under this act was raised in California one regiment of infantry and five companies of cavalry. These were called respectively the First Infantry and First Cavalry California Volunteers. The troops were raised for the protection of the Overland Mail Route between California and the Eastern States, by way of salt Lake City. The force was placed under the command of Bvt. Major James H. carleton, First U. S. Cavalry, with the rank of colonel. The regiments rendezvous at Oakland, opposite San Francisco, Cal. During the latter part of August and the month of September they had acquired nearly their full complement of men. Active preparations were making to put the command in the best condition for active field service, and by the 1st of October everything was in readiness for the movement of the troops. About this time the spirit of rebellion became manifest in California. "Treason stalked abroad. " In the southern part of the Statean open rupture was apprehended. In consequence of this condition of affairs the command of Colonel Carleton was diverted from its original destination by General Sumner, department commander, and moved to the infested district. About the 1st of October the troops moved down the coast and formed a camp near Los Angeles, called Camp Latham. On the 14th three companies of the First Cavalry California Volunteers, under the command of Major Eyre, of the same regiment, were ordered to relieve the regulra troops stationed at San BernandiNumbers This place was the hot-bed of secessionism in California. On the same day order were received to send three companies of the First Infantry California Volunteers, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel J. R. West, to relieved the regulars stationed at Fort Yuma. Regular troops stationed at different parts of the State were ordered to rendezvous at two points, viz, San Diego and San Pedro, for the purpose of embarkation, orders having been issued by the War Department that all regular troops on the Pacific coast be sent to the seat of war in the East. Brigadier General E. V. Sumner, at that time un command of the Department of the Pacific, was also ordered in. On the departure of General Sumner, Colonel George Wright, Ninth U. S. Infantry, assumed command of the department. The Southern District of California was turned over by Colonel Wright to the command of Colonel Carleton.

During the two succeeding months quiet and order were restored throughout the southern part of the State. the distribution of the troops indicated to the disafected the determination of the authorities to keep California firm and steadfast to the Union. On the 12th of January Colonel Carleton was summoned to San Francisco, to consult with Colonel Wright in reference to the movement of troops into Utah. About this tiem rumors reached California that Van Dorn, of the rebel service, was fitting out an expedition for the invasion of California by way of Arizona. The fact was well established that Arizona and a portion of New Mexico were occupied by Confederate troops, and it was apparent to all that California was more accessible through Arizona by way of Fort Yuma than any other point. Fort Yuma, located on the Colorado River, on the southeastern line of the State, is our extreme outpost. Surrounded as it is by a vast desert, if once in the possession of an enemy the key to the State was lost. In view of all these threatened dangers to the State and coast, general Wright suggested to the War Department that perhaps the Goveretter served by throwing the California troops into Arizona and driving the rebels from that Territory. A double object would thus be gaine; first, an effectual guard would be kept against any invasion of the Pacifis coast from that quarter; second, the California troops would fall in the rear of the Confederate forces then in New Mexico and assist the Federal forces in expelling them from that Territory.

The suggestions of General Wright were favorably received by the War Department. The feasibility of the movements was so apparent that the consent of that Department was at once obtained. On the receipt of the decision of the War Department authority was granted to Colonel Carleton to organize and fit out the expedition. The Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, under the command of Colonel George W. Bowie; also Company A, Third U. S. Artillery, with a light battery, under command of First Lieutenant John B. Shinn, of the U. S. Army, were added to Colonel Carleton's command; also Captain Cremony's company, Second Cavalry California Volunteers. Active preparations were at once made for the movement of the column. It was important that the troops should move as soon as possible, in orderthat they might receive the benefit of the cool winter weather while passing ovr the Gila and Colorado Deserters. The great distance from the Pacific Ocean to the Rio Grande, the entire and complete desolation of nearly the whole route, presented obstacles almost insurmountable to marching a column of over 2,000 men and the same number of animals. It was well known that forage and provisions could be obtained but at two points between Fort Yuma and the Rio Grande in time of peace, and then in limited quntities, viz, at the Pima Villages and at Tucson; and it being well known that the enemy occupied one, if not both, of these points, it was necessary that transportation should be made entirely independent of them. The greatest dif to be in subsisting animals. Unless this could be done rations could not be furnished the troops, and the expedition would necessarily fall to the ground.

With the commencement of preparations came unlooked-for difficulties. Not for twenty years had a winter of such severity occurred in California. The whole country was flooded; hundreds of horses and cattle mired down in the open plains and were lost. For weeks it was almost impossible to move a vehicle of any kind, and the movement of baggage trains was out of the question. In the meantime commissary stores and forage were sent by sea to Fort Yuma, making this point a general depot and be of operations. The troops during this terrible winter lived in tents. As the rain subsided and the ground became more settled the troops were gradually moved toward Fort Yuma by companies of twos and threes. A sub-depot was formed at Oak Grove, near the edge of the Yuma Desert, 120 miles from Los Angeles, called Camp Wright. From this point to Fort Yuma, 180 miles, it is a continuous desert, entirely destitute of vegetations; water very scarce and generally of bad quality. Before moving the troops on this desert Colonel carleton sent out parties and had the wells cleaned out and new ones dug, in orders that every drop of water might be available. Forage for the animals was deposited at different points etween Camp Wright and Fort Yuma. The troops were marched across by companies, one day apart. At some of the wells there was so little water that it was necessary to dip it out in a pint cup, this consuming nearly a whole night in watering 100 animals. In order that this desert may be more thoroughly understood, I quote from the notes of Lieutenant-Colonel West, of the First Infantry California Volunteers, who marched the first three companies over. The description of the route commences at Oak grove, Camp Wright, near the edge of the desert:

Left Camp Wright, near Warner's ranch, at 7. 30 a. m. ; marched five miles over pleasant rolling roads and well-wooded country to La Puerta, at which place found mountain stream, but no place for a camp-ground; thence by fair road, without water, to San Felipe, eight miles; pasturage good, but no wood; water neither over-abundant not good; camp-ground inferior. Left San Felipe at 3. 30 a. m. by heavy, hilly roads to Vallecito. Road sandy through bottom land to first hill, seven miles; thence broken road, six miles, a great portion of which is a canon, with but one wagon track, winding between cliffs. A very small force could oppose and enemy of far superior numbers. The latter part of the road move level. On the left side and about half a mile from the road is a spring that affords water enough for fifty men; thence a small, rugged hill is surrounded and a valey reached, five miles in length, by sandy road to Vallecito; water in fair supply; no wood bust mesquite bushes; pasturage fair. Left Vallecito at 3. 30 a. m. ; marched nine miles by heavy, sandy road to Carriso Creek; no pasturage. The country has now become a complete desert of most forbidding aspect. The creek is a small stream, affording an abundant supply of water of an inferior quality. The bottom land is filled with a stunted growth of mesquite and arrow bushes. Left Carriso Creek at 11. 30 a. m., following the stream and constantly crossing it; road heavy and sandy; thence over a level road, with semwhat improved traveling, four miles, to a short, steep hill; thence to a level plain, with desdert brush, to Sackett's Wells. Last part of the road fair traveling; to indian Well. Indian Well is some thirty feet deep; water good, but in small quantities. Signal Mountain is a prominent landmark; bears southwest about fifteen miles; reached camp at 11 p. m; distance, fifteen miles. Left at 5 p. m. for New River Station; road a perfect level, over an alkali plain, with a few patches of mesquite bushes; road dusty and heavy for wagons; well deep; water scarce and of inferior quality. Started at 5 p. m. for Alamo; road heavy, over barren flat; there is a well some thirty feet deep, affording some water. Left at 4 p. m. for Gardner's Wells; no water; nine mileame character of road and country, to salt or Seven Wells; water plenty, but brackinsh. Starte at 4 p. m., nine miles, to Cooke's Wells; first two miles and a half bad road. At Cooke's Wells water and wood abundant and good; thence, fifteen mils, to Pilot Knob. Camped on the bank of the Colorado at foot of mountain. From Cooke's the road is generally good, through mesquite flat, and latter part through Indian Gardens; distance, twenty-five miles. Started at 1. 30 p. m. The road follows the Rio Colorado to Fort Yuma; distance, ten miles; road much broken. Reached Fort Yuma at 4. 30 p. m.

I have been thus minute in detail in order that a correct idea may be had of some of the difficulties encountered in marching troops across this desert. It will be seen that nearly every march was made in the night-time. By starting at 4 or 5 in the afternoon the march would be accomplished before daylight, thus enabling men it sleep a part of the night. The ground did not become sufficiently settled for the movement of Shinn's battery until the 13th of April. Previous to this nearly all the command had been moved toward Fort Yuma, one company only remaining to accompany the battery. Colonel Carleton arrived at Fort Yuma on the 9th of April. Active preparations we made to move the command eastward without delay. Water tanks, holding 600 gallons each, were prepared to accompany each detachment. Contractors were made at Fort Yuma to have hay cut and deposited at different points between the fort and the Pima Villages. It was ascertained that Tucson was still in the hands of the Texans. Their pickets extended down the Rio Gila till within fifty miles of Fort Yuma. Hay deposited at different points by Colonel Carleton's agents was burned. The Pima Indians are an agruciltural people, and cultivate large quantities of wheat. Knowing this fact and the importance of securing as much as possible, Colonel Carleton had for some time been in communication with an American living at these villages. He was directed to purchase all the wheat the Indians had. A considerable quantity was thus accumulated; but before the advance of the column reached that point the Texans had destroyed it all, with the exception of a small quantity the Indians had cached. This was a serious loss, but the growing crosp had not been molested, and Colonel Carleton was enabled to secure a considerable amount for his animals. Two companies of infantry and one of cavalry were sent forward toward the Pima and Tucson. As out forces advanced the Texans fell back to Tucson. The command followed them to within a short distance of that place; but, not feeling sufficiently strong to attack them, fell back to the Pima. Lieutenant-Colonel West was then ordered forward with four companies of infantry. The following itinerary was made by Lieutenant West:

To Gila City, seventeen miles; no grass, wood; camp on river; thence to Mission Camp, eleven miles; wood, water, and a little grass; wood, water, and grass four miles farther on. From Mission Creek to Fillibuster is six miles; thence to Antelope Peak, nine miles; grass within three-quarters of a mile; camp at station. From this place to Mohawk Station, twenlve miles; no grass; camp on the river. To Texas Hill, eleven miles; a little grass on the hill station, half a mile back from the river. Lagoon Camp; fine water, wood, grass, and shade; thence to Burnwell's ranch, eleven miles; very dusty and disagreeable; men nor animals cannot recruit much. At Grassy Camp, three miles distant, they do much better. From Grassy Camp to Berk's Station, six miles; a very poor camp; little better at Oatman Flat, eleven miles farther. From Oatman Flat to Kenyon Station, eleven miles; poor camp; no grass. To Shady Camp, ten miles; everything good. From Shady Camp to Gila Bend, four miles; wood and water, but no grass; thence to Desert Station, twenty-two miles; good no water or grass. To the Tanks, seven miles; same as Desert Station. To Maricopa Wells, elevn miles; plenty of brackich water; some salt grass; and from thence to the Pima Villages, eleven miles, road fair, with some sloughs.

The march from Fort Yuma to the Pima Villages was fatiguing in the extreme. The intense heat and alkali dust was almost unbearable; both men and animals suffered very much. As fast as possible the troops were pushed forward. On the 14th of May Lieutenant-ColonelWest was sent forward by way of Fort Breckinridge with four companies of infantry. This fort was reoccupied, and the Starts and Stripes again floated to the breeze. From Fort Breckinridge Colonel West proceeded to Tuscon by way of Canada del Ora. A description of the route is taken from the notes of Colonel West:

May 14; left Fort Barrett, Pima, at 7 a. m; tends toward the river on the left hand; detached and irregular mountains from five to nine miles to the right; soil becomes sandy and the country desert. Greasewood and mesquite wood abounded, but no thickets. The river is gradually approached and touched at Sacaton Station; there plenty of sacaton grass; a poor article for pasturage; good camp on the river; road fine for marching and transprotation. Course, east-northeast. 15th, left Sacaton Station at 5. 40 a. m; road parts from the river and leaves it from one to two miles to the left; mountain spurs trend off southeast; a one peak about one mile and a half long is detached from the main range; the Butterfield road to Tucson passes between the peak and main mountain; a picket there can effectually watch both roads. A small lagoon of water is found at the north base. The Picacho is plainlyvisible throughout the day's march. Dense mesquite thickets; road fine for marching and transportation. Camp on the river in a cottonwood grove one-quarter of a mile below White's; good grazing and fine. Course, east by south. May 16, left White's at 5. 50 a. m. ; road leaves the river and takes the mesa; the ascent is gradual and road good for twenty miles. Thickets of cactus and palo verde. At twenty to thirty-one miles a steep descent leads to Dry Camp, a basin in the hills of some thirty acres in area; a trail makes out of this due north to Ojo Verde Springs, four miles; the Gila Riveris three miles farther in the same direction. Ojo Verde can be used; the water is inferior and not abundant; the quality and perhaps the quantity could be improved; the improved; the spring is four miles off the road, and the return must be made by the same track. Left Dry Camp at 6. 40 p. m. ; road turns off southeast up an arroyo; very heavy sand for about six miles; then gradual ascent of five miles; then more abrupt and up high hills. At fifteen miles from Dry Camp a finger post, marked "Water," points to the right. Cottonwood Spring is distant half a mile, in a ravine. The grazing si fibe and water abundant for sucha body of troops as this. A lone cottonwood tree prominently marks the spring. Course, east by southeast. May 17, laid by. May 18, left Cottonwood Spring at 5 a. m; road over rolling hills five miles; good grass, then pass the summit, and the descent commences toward San Pedro River. Sandry arroyo for eight miles and heavy traveling; the road becomes a canon. A walnut tree, three miles west of Fort Breckinridge, marked "Water," stands in the middle of the road. At this point the road to Tuscon turns off square to the right; thence to the San Pedro and Fort Breckinridge. Colonel Carleton changed the name of this fort and called it Fort Standford, in honor of Leland Standford, Governor of California. The Fort is three miles to the right, up a canon; rocks from 100 to 300 feet high; pass from twenty to seventy yards wide; road extremely heavy. At this fort fine stream, good grazing, and abundance of wood. Course, east by south. 19th, left Fort Breckinridge at 5. 45 a. m. Returned by the canon to the walnut tree; thence turned abruptly to the left and south up a similar canon, which gradually expands to open country; road for twelve miles excessively heavy and sandy; theng hills until the foot of a mountain is reached on the left, about seventeen miles from the walnut tree. Next three miles the hills are sidding and difficult. A steep descent of one mile leads to Canada del Oro. Camp on a fire mountain stream; grazing very fine and wood abundant. This is a very difficult day's march. Course, northwest and south. 20th, left canada del Oro at 2 p. m. ; road follows a ravine between the mesa on the right and a mountain range on the left; a good deal of sand, but mainly a fair roadl fine grass along the road. At 11. 55 the road forks, the left hand leading one mles to the Rincom, a small, running stream; fine camp; grass immediately under the mountain. Course, southwest. May 21, left Rincon at 5. 30 a. m. Road turns round the point of the mountain on the left; traveling rather heavy. Sandy arroyo, and the ground becomes rolling. About eight miles from Ricon a mesa covered with cafctus and mesquite is reached; traveling improves. Course, southwest and south by east.

Out troops entered and occupied Tucson without firing a shot. At our approach the Texans made a precipitate retreat. Colonel Carleton determined to collect the troops at this point for rest, drill, &c. Men and animals required rest; wagons wanted repairing. The dryness of the atmosphere and the intolerable heat had shrunk them to the point of falling to pieces. Communication was opened with sonora for the purchase of flour, grain, &c. In the first part of June all the troops vcomposing the column were in and about Tuscon, with the exception of a part of the Fifth Infantry, left to garrison Forts Yuma and Barrett. There is another and more direct road leading from the Pima Villages to Tucson. This road was taken by Lieutenant Shinn and two companies of infantry. A description of the road by lieutenant Shinn is appended.

SPECIAL ORDERS,
 HEADQUARTERS COLUMN FROM CALIFORNIA, Numbers 15.
 Tucson, Ariz., June 16, 1862.

The following itinerary of the marches from Fort Barrett (Pima Villages) to Tucson, Ariz., via Picacho Mountain, made by captain Shinn, Third Artillery, U. S. Army, is published for the information of all concerned:

June 1, left camp at Fort Barrett at 4:15 p. m., with battery, 1 ambulance, 1 water 8 transportation wagons (loaded to 3,600 pounds with ammunition, flour, and forage), 87 men and 153 animals. Road on Gila River fine for transportation of heavily loaded wagons. No water; no grass; vegetation, mesquite and greasewood. At Sacaton Station very dity; encamped on river at 8 p. m. ; eleven miles and eight-tenths.

June 2, filled water-tank (600 gallons) and left camp at sacaton at 4. 20 p. m. Road leaves the river and sweeps round from southeast by south to south by east, with gradually ascending slope to summit, five miles and a quarter between mountain spur and detached peak on left, two miles of road dusty, then soil changes from the alkali dust of Gila River bottom to mixture of sand and gravel, very hard and quite smooth. From summit, Casa Grande in sight on desert to left and the Picacho straight ahead south by east thirty-one iles; desert continues to Oneida Station; road continues good; at eight miles gravel replaced by hard alkali clay; vegetation, mesquite, greasewood, and cactus; no water or grass on roadl wood plenty and sufficient for cooking near Oneida Station, which is on the left; well on the right of tain all in ten minutes later.

Onehundred and seventy-five buckets (equal to 700 gallons) was taken from the well, at the rate of ten gallons per minute, apparently without diminishing the supply. The water is excellent, cold and weet; the best this side of Fort Yuma; arrived and departed during the night; found no grass near station; eleven miles and one-tenth.

June 3, left camp at 4 a. m. Old marks of surface water show a gradual rise of the desert toward Blue Station; road fine for marching; very little sand. At six miles halted from 5. 45 to 6. 45 for grass, which may be found in considerable quantity 100 yards to the left of road in the belt of mesquite or arroyo leading east from that point, and said to extend four or five miles in the same direction; obtain sufficient for a good night's feed. This grass is gramma, with some little gaeta. The gaeta was also observed on the left of the road one miles farther on; no water; vegetation, desert plants, mesquite, and grasewood. Arrived and encamped at Blue Water Station at 7. 45 a. m. ; well (sixty-nine feet in depth, with two feet and a half of water) and station both on right of road; drew water at the rate of six gallons perminute for one hour and three-quarters; watered ninety horses at the same time, four gallons each; mules in the p. m. and horses again in the p. m. Took from this well in ten hours over 1,600 gallons of water and left the depth of water as found. It will probably afford 4,000 gallons of water in twenty-four hours; quality good and water cool. At 4 p. m. sent a detachment forward to clean out well at the point of mountain; wood plenty; some gramma and a little gaeta reported to exist in the mesquite 500 yards northwest of the station; nine miles and seven-tenths.

June 4, left Blue Water Station at 2. 10 a. m. and expected to march to Tucson, fifty-four miles, in the next twenty-four hours, as there is no water on the road, and not enough with company to encamp on; some wagons remain loaded with 3,600 pounds; morning quite cool and very fine for marching; road continues to rise to the Pciacho; at 4. 40 a. m. nine miles and six-tenths from Blue Water; soil, clay, water-washed, andvery hard and smooth, extends for miles on either side of the road; considerable dry gramma grass in the immediately vicinity and mesquite sparde. At thirteen miles and nine-tenths passed graves of Lieutenant Barrett and two soldiers on the left of road. The chalcos or water holes, now dry, are in the mesquite, on the right of the road; here quite a thicket; some grass, but dry. The road is now level, or nearly so, for three or four miles. At 6. 45 a. m. halted at the Picacho Station on the right, and distant from Blue Water Station fourteen miles and nine-tenths; saw a band of antelope near foot a peak; no water at this point; consumed about 200 gallons of watr in tank, for which had to wait half an hour; resumed march at 7. 45 a. m; road begins to descend toward the south two miles beyond the Picacho and so continues to point of mountain; a very excellent road all the way. At twenty-five miles and five-tenths passed a deep well; dry on right; no water ever found here; high mountains on right, distant from 30 to 100 miles, and between mountain and road valley of santa Cruz River, here only an arroyo, which road crosses near point of mountain; at 12 m. and twnty-nine miles halted half an hou; met a messenger at 1. 30 p. m. and received notice of water in abundance at point of mountain, where company arrived and encamped at 4. 15 p. m. ; station on right and well on left of road; water plenty; no grass; no wood at well, and but little on last eight miles of road; used water brought from Tucson on wagons, and did not thoroughly test the capacity of the well, which is thirty-nine feet deep, with four feet of water; all agree in pronouncing it the best on the desert and say it cannot be dipped dry; thirty-nine miles and one-tenth.

June 5, left camp at 3 a. m., about five miles from point of mountain; dense mesquite thicket - a good cover for Indians; at six miles crossed arroyo of santa Cruz River, descending to left; quite dry; a little sand, and some more at eleven miles, half a mile of it this time; remainder of road very good; numerous cottonwood trees on road this day and much mesquite; no water; between seven and ten miles from point of mountain much salt grass; poor stuff for forage. First five and last three miles and a half of to-day's march very fine; road of hard gravel; arrived at Tucson at 8. 45 a. m. ; fifteen miles. Total, eighty-six miles and seven-tenths.

Tuscon is about halfway between Fort Yuma and the Rio Grande, and contains a population of 400, or perhaps 500, mostly Mexicans. A few Americans and foreigners were living here, principally gamblers and ruffians, traitors to their country - secessionists. Colonel Carleton received his promotion to brigade-general of volunteers while on the desert in the early part of June. On his arrival at Tuscon the Territory of Arizona was at once placed under martial law, and the following proclamation issued. *

* * * * *

A number of notorious characters were arrested, examined by military commissions, and sent to Fort Yuma. Order sprang from disorder, and in a short time a den of thieves was converted into a peaceful village. In the meantime General Carleton was making active preparations to move his command to the Rio Grande; wagons were repaired, stores collected from Sonora, and everything put in as good condition as circumstances would permit after the severe march over the Yuma and Gila Deserts. No communication up to this time could be had with our forces in New Mexico. The strength of the rebels and their locality entirely unknown. The great difficulty in communicating with General Canby, at that time in cimmand of the Department of New Mexico, was on account of the hostile Indians, the Apache Nation occupying the whole country between the Rio Grande and the Colorado Rivers. The great distance to be traversed through their country rendered it hazaradous, if not impossible, for any small party to get through it. General Carleton endeavored to send an express to General canby from Tucson. This was carried by three men. The party was attacked near Apache Pass, and two of the men were killed by the Indians; the survivor was purued some forty miles and bately escaped death. He was captured by the Texans near Mesilla and the distapches to General Canby fell into their hands. From these they learned the exact strength of General Carleton's command and the intended movement of the column. On the 22nd of June General Carleton sent forward Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre, of the First Cavalry California Volunteers, with 140. This was the advance guard of the column. With the exception of frequent skiemishing with Indians and the loss of three men killed and several wounded at Apache Pass, the party met with no other enemy before reaching the Rio Grande.

Apache Pass is about midway between Tuscon, and the river. The pass is through a spur of the Chiricauha Mountains, about three and a half or four miles long. In this pass is a fine spring of water, and a favorite haunt of the Indians. A company of infantry and a part of a company of cavalry, with two mountain howitzers, fought the Indians at this spring for four hours. A number of the savages were killed in the fight. Our loss was three killed and several wounded. On either side of this pass extends a plain from thirty to forty miles in width. The Indians can see parties approach and lay in wait for them. On the 17th of July, preparations for the movement of the command having been completed, General Carleton issued the following general order: *

* * * * *

No report had been received from Colonel Eyre. The strength and locality of the Confederates were unknown; consequently the column was kept well in hand, the companies marching only one day apart. For a description of the country I quote from the notes of Colonel Eyre. +

* * * * *

As soon as the arrival of Colonel Eyre on the river was known the Texans made a hasty flight. Their army was completely demoralized, and Colonel Eyre's force magnified fourloud. What they could not carry with them they destroyed. One hundred and fifty six and wounded were left in hospital at Franklin, Tex., and above. Colonel eyre crossed the river near Fort Thorn and pushed down toward the retreating rebels. He entered Las Cruses, opposite Mesilla, and raised our national colors. Franklin was also occupied by a detachment of his commaneton, with the head of the column, reached the river on the 8th of August, the time consumed in the march being eighteen days. The sight of this beautiful stream after the many days of toil and suffering gladdened the hearts of all. The last day's march was particularly severe; over forty miles had been made by the infantry without water without a murmur. The desert had been conquered, and the command arrived on the river in good fighting condition. No deaths had occurred between Tucson and the river, and but few remained on the sick list. General Carleton crossed the river at the point where Colonel Eyre crossed. The river at the point where Colonel Eyre crossed. The river was so high that it could not be forded, and the only boats were two small scows, made by Colonel Eyre. First the animals were swum over. This was successfully accomplished; none were lost. A rope was attached to both sides of the boats and extended to eitehr bank of the river. A number of men were stationed on both banks. By this means they were enabled to pull the boat from shore to shore, being constantly in the water. The wagons were unloaded; their contents ferried across in the boats, which were hauled across by ropes. In this manner each command as it came up was crossed insafety. Nothing was lost or injured. General Carleton moved the column down the river as far as Las Cruses, La Mesilla, and Franklin. Taking with him two companies of cavalry, he proceeded on down as far as Fort Quitman, Tex. ; from there he dispatched a company of the First Cavalry as far as Ford Davis, distant from Fort Quitman - miles. The texans had abandoned this post. One man, much reduced, was found dead, his body being pierced in many places with arrows. This man had evidently been left behind sick. The sick and wounded Texans left behind at Franklin were sent with an escort to San Antonio. General Canby, at this time in command of the department of New Mexico, had been ordered East, and on the 16th of September, 1862, General Carleton arrived at Santa Fe, and on the 18th assumed command of the department. Before leaving the lower country he published the following general order: