MARCH 10-12, 1864. - Expedition from Batesville to Wild Haws, Strawberry Creek, & c., Ark.

Report of Captain Edward Lawler, First Nebraska Cavalry.

BATTESVILLE, ARK., March 15, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to make the following report of an expedition made under orders dated March 10, 1864:

I left Batesville at 11.30 a. m., and proceeded northwest on the Wild Haws road. Meeting no enemy, I encamped for the night 1 mile south of Wild Haws. The same evening I sent a detachment of 40 men, under command of Captain Potts, to Wild Haws; he returned, reporting no enemy in the vicinity. Next morning had reveille sounded at 3.30, and marched at daylight as ordered. I proceeded northeast, passing through Wild Haws and from there to Franklin Post-Office, and there, hearing that the enemy with 100 men encamped on Strawberry Creek the night before, I at once pushed on to attack him, arriving at the place reported, and found no enemy, but traces of where his horses had been fed. I made frequent inquiries, and from all I could ascertain he went east of Franklin Post-Office the day before. After scouting the country for some miles in the vicinity, and hearing of Colonel Wood, of the Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, being in the neighborhood of Wild Haws, and not finding any enemy, I proceeded to join him as directed. En route, hearing of some 20 of the enemy between Colonel Wood and my detachment, I thought it policy to encamp for the night, in the hope that if the enemy were in Colonel Wood's rear I might pick them up early in the morning. March 12, 1864, reveille 3.30 a. m., joined Colonel Wood about 9 o'clock a. m. He not thinking it necessary for me to remain, I pushed on toward White River, as directed. Not finding the enemy in any considerable numbers, I proceeded toward Batesville, where I arrived at 9 o'clock p. m.

Captain, I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,

EDWD. LAWLER,

Captain, First Nebraska Cavalry.

Captain H. C. FILLEBROWN,

Asst. Adjt. General, Dist. of Northeastern Arkansas.