APACHE PASS, ARIZ. TER., July 16, 1862.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to inform you of the following circumstances:

On the 15th instant, while en route from Dragoon Spring to this place with a force of about fifty-four men in charge of the Government train of twenty-one wagons, under the care of Mr. Jesse R. Allen, wagon-master, and about 7. 30 o'clock in the evening, when fourteen miles distant from the stationin Apache Pass, I was met by Sergeant Mitchell Cavalry California Volunteers, who informed me that you had been attacked by the Apaches in Apache Pass about noon of that day and that after a sharp conflict you had routed the savages, and also informing me that you would come out to meet me with an infantry force, so as to assure the security of the train. Not knowing how near I might be to the canon in which your greatly superior force had been attacked, and being unwilling to subject the train and the men under my orders to a moonlight attacked, and being unwilling to subject the train and the men under my orders to a moonlight attack in the pass in which the savages would possess every advantage, I immediately corralled the train and held it in security and unmolested until joined by you about 11. 30 o'clock of the same night. I regret to report the loss of 3 horses, 1 saddle, 1 bridle and saddle blanket, 1 nosebag, 1 currycomb and brush, 1 carbine sling, 1 haversack, and 1 pair of spurs, the horsesbeing killed and the artcles abobe specified being captured by the Apaches, who waylaid Sergeant Mitchell and his small party on theor way back from the pass to the train. I am also pained to report that Private Jesse T. Maynard, of the same party, was severely wounded by a musket shot through the right forearm, near the elbow. The following verbal report of the attack on Sergeant Mitchell's party has been made to me by him: He states that in obedience to your order he left Apache Pass on the afternoon of the 15th instant, afetr you had routed the savages, accompanied by Privates Maynard, King, Young, Keim, and Teal, of Company B, Second Cavalry California Volunteers, and then, when about four miles to the westward of the canon, on his way to rejoin the train, his party was waylaid and attacked by about forty Apaches, who were in ambush among some mesquite trees and rocks between two swells of land. The horsesof Privates Maynard and Keim were shot, and Maynard wounded by the fire. At this time private John W. Teal was about 250 yards in the rear, leading his horse to rest him, and the savages were between Teal and his party. Finding the enemy too numerous to attack with the small and weakened force the sergeant retreated and arrived safely in camp with Privates Maynard, King, and Young, Private Keim's horses having fallen in a dying condition about a miles distant and he having remained to secure his saddle, bridle, &c., which he did, and came up about twenty minutes later. There was every reason to fear that Private John W. Teal had fallen a victim to the savages, but it affords me pleasure to add that about 10. 30 o'clock of the same night Private Teal arrived on foot unharmed, and bringing with him all his arms and ammunition. His report is as follows: Finding himself cut off from Sergeant Mitchell's party he struck off by himself at a gallop down the valley which forms between the two swells of land already mentioned, and was closely pursued by fifteen savages, who fired repeatedly at him, shooting his horse through the heart. He immediately threw himself flat on the ground and defended himself with his carbine. The savages seemed disposed to close upon him, when he drew his pistol and saber, they drew off and circled round him, firing at him and he returning their fire with his carbine. This unequal contest lasted for one hour and a half, when they gradually withdrew and he made good his retreat to the place we encamped, arriving at the time above specified.

I have the honor to be, your obedient, humble servant,

JOHN C. CREMONY,

Captain, Commanding Company B, Second Cavalry California Volunteers.

Captain THOMAS L. ROBERTS,

Commanding Detachment from California Column, California Vols.