Numbers 5. Report of Colonel De Witt C. Thomas, Ninety- THIRD Indiana Infantry.

HEADQUARTERS NINETY- THIRD INDIANA INFANTRY,
June 16, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to make the following report of the part taken by my regiment at the battle of Brice's Cross Roads:

On the morning of the 1st of June I left Memphis with the brigade, composed of the Seventy- second Ohio, Ninety- fifth Ohio, One hundred and fourteenth Illinois, Ninety- THIRD Indiana (my regiment), and at the depot we were joined by the Ninth Minnesota, who were temporarily attached to the brigade.

There was nothing worthy of note occurred except the incessant rain and the almost utter impossibility of moving through the road, until the 10th of the month. About 11 o'clock word came to me that it was necessary for me to move up at quick time; that the cavalry had been engaged and the enemy had turned their left flank. This was about three miles from the field of battle. As soon as I received the word I ordered my men to close up and prepare their guns for action, supposing, of course, the cavalry had met a superior force and had been driven back; and I also heard that the One hundred and thirteenth Illinois had been moved forward on the double- quick, taking position which checked the enemy somewhat. When I got within one mile, and a half of the battle ground I found the cavalry in considerable confusion at a bridge, trying to reorganize. Passing on to the battle- field, I found Colonel McMillen taking charge of the infantry as it came in, and placing it in position. He told me to take the position on the right of the road leading to Guntown, which I did, he staying until I was in position. He also told me to hold the position at all hazards, which I attempted to do. When in position I threw out Company E as skirmishers in front of the line. In a few minutes we received a fire, and upon looking up I saw men advancing upon my line, dressed in our uniform and carrying the Union flag, but firing upon us as they advanced. Some of my men, upon receiving the fire, commenced firing upon them. Myself and Lieutenant- Colonel Poole, stopped the firing, supposing, of course, it was our own men, when they (the rebels) poured into my ranks a murderous fire, thinning my ranks at a fearful rate. I then gave the command to my men "to fire. " Then commenced one of the hardest contested battles I have ever witnessed; the enemy flanking me every few moments and my men charging their front, contesting for every foot of ground. At this time I threw Companies A and F to the right as skirmishers to protect my flank, and also threw back the right wing to change my front; Companies A and F fell back to the line, losing fearfully. here Lieutenant- Colonel Poole, Adjutant Moody, and Lieutenant Mooney and Captain Courvoisier were also badly wounded.

After my line was formed I pressed forward again upon the enemy, drove them some considerable distance, ad was again outflanked and had to again give back, which I did by retreating and firing, changing my front as often as it was necessary to prevent my men from being surrounded. I kept retreating and fighting until I got back to the frame house in the forks of the road. Finding the enemy were following us up very close, and the battery being in danger, I moved my men forward again, and with the assistance of the Ninth Minnesota Regiment was enabled to gain the ground first occupied by me in the beginning of the engagement, and the enemy giving way, left us in comparative quiet for a short time. Getting an order to move back to the left rear, I started with my men by the right flank and met Captain Fernald, who said I was ordered to follow him, which I did. We moved by the rear of the batteries to the left, and I think in the rear of the THIRD Brigade, on a ridge running parallel with the line o the THIRD Brigade. We had not been here but a short time until we were again flanked and ordered to fall back in the rear of a fence a little under the crest of the hill. At this point we received a very heavy fire from the enemy, which we returned, killing and wounding a great many of the enemy. In this line I found a detachment of the Tenth Missouri Cavalry on my right and the Ninety- fifth Ohio on my left. Finding the enemy were coming in on our flank and rear, we were ordered by Adjutant Abel, of Colonel McMillen's staff, to fall back. We moved back in good order until we arrived at the large white house on the hill. Here I found Colonel Wilkin and the rest of the brigade, forming a line of battle on the left of the road facing the first battle- ground. Colonel McMillen rode by and requested me to ride with him a short distance. I left the command of the regiment to captain Swift, and when I returned to where I had left him he had moved off to the right, and left some ten or twenty men whom I got together, and with some of them I burned a portion of the wagon train. I then moved forward and in a short time I caught up with the regiment, which, I think, was composed of about 190 men. About this time the retreat had commenced in good earnest, the wagon train, artillery, and cavalry blocking up the road so effectually it was impossible to get infantry along it. I gave the command of the regiment to Captain Swift and went forward on the road. I arrived at Ripley about 6 o'clock on the morning of the 11th, where I found the regiment. At 7 o'clock orders came for us to take up line of march for Salem. When I got my regiment in line I was informed that you had not arrived, and we were fearful that you had been captured. I was ordered to take command of the brigade, which I proceeded to do to the best of my ability. The cavalry wee moving at a very rapid pace, and my orders were to keep my command well closed up upon the cavalry. In moving out of Ripley our rear guard of cavalry was driven in, and the enemy came dashing up to within 150 yards of my line and commenced pouring into it a very sever fire, but we kept moving off rapidly to give way for the Second and THIRD Brigades, which were in the rear. At this place the Second and THIRD Brigades were cut off, which left the First Brigade in the rear. After marching at an unusual pace for infantry, to keep closed up upon the cavalry for some six or seven miles, we came t a very bad slough for cavalry or infantry to cross. The Seventy- second Ohio being across, the Fourth Missouri, being the rear guard and being hard pressed, came dashing through my rear regiments of infantry, which let the rebels into them. They, being out of ammunition, were compelled to break to the brush. But very few of them were captured, but made their way to Collierville, but were compelled to throw away their guns and accouterments, after destroying them so they would not be any benefit to the enemy. When the Forth Missouri broke they came running through my ranks, crying "the enemy is coming," which caused considerable confusion. I sent forward to the colonel of the THIRD Iowa (Colonel Noble), and told him our condition. He immediately threw out two companies of his regiment, which checked the rebel advance. In a few moments after, Lieutenant-Colonel Eaton, of the Seventy- second Ohio, came to me and told me that the most of his regiment was captured, which left me without a command, except a few stragglers whom I told to make the best of their way to the railroad and follow that down to La Fayette. After this there was nothing of importance occurred until our arrival at Collierville, where we were relieved by re- enforcements. The enemy followed us until 4 o'clock Sunday morning, firing into us at every opportunity.

I have in camp about the number of men that I brought off the battle- field proper.

My killed, as far as I am able to ascertain, are 3 officers and 21 enlisted men; and wounded, 3 officers and 58 enlisted men; officers missing, 8; enlisted men missing, 165.

I would beg leave to mention in connection with my report that Colonel W. L. McMillen, in command of the infantry force, was always present in time of need to encourage my men and give me the assistance necessary, and to his most efficient staff, Captain Fernald, Lieutenant and Adjutant Abel, Lieutenant Barber, and others, I shall always remain under obligations for their valuable assistance. I would also beg leave to mention in connection with my report Captain McGrayel, Captain Elliott, and Captain Swift, who rendered me most efficient service after the death of my lieutenant- colonel and adjutant in changing my lines and keeping the men in lines during the engagements and the retreat. I am also under obligations to Doctors Ford and Sackett, of my regiment, for services rendered upon the battle- field and after in caring for the wounded, &c. Lieutenant and Acting Quartermaster Quail also has my kindest regards for his efficient services as forage master for regiment and brigade. In fact, the officers and men behaved nobly, as they have always ben in the habit of doing heretofore.

Yours, respectfully,

D. C. THOMAS,

Colonel, Commanding Ninety- THIRD Regiment Indiana Vols.

Colonel ALEXANDER WILKIN,

Commanding First Brigade U. S. Forces in the Field.