Numbers 2. Report of Captain Francis McCabe, First New Mexico Cavalry, of operations in New Mexico.

FORT CONBY, N. MEX., March 4, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to report that I left this post on the 27th ultimo with a command consisting of 3 sergeants, 5 corporals, and 42 privates of Company L, First New Mexico Cavalry, rationed for ten days, pursuant to Post Orders, No.-, dated Fort Canby, N. Mex., February 26, 1864. On reporting to Captain A. B. Carey, commanding officer, I received verbal instructions to proceed to Fort Fauntleroy with my command, and on my arrival to select from among the party at the mail station some man possessing a sufficient knowledge of the country in that vicinity who could me in search of an Indian encampment supposed to be located somewhere in that neighborhood. Captain Carey likewise advised me that the band of Navajoes above referred to were perhaps the same Indians that had made the attack on Russell's train, fired on our express riders, and that had so long annoyed our communications with Fort Wingate and Los Pinos; and he directed me to march by moonlight in time to reach and surprise their camp by sunrise, when I was to use proper discretion in the matter, and either receive the band as prisoners in case they should surrender or chastise them to the utmost extent of my ability should they offer resistance.

I arrived at Forst Fauntleroy on the 29th ultimo, and was informed by Sergt. J. Martin Bird, commanding detachment at mail station, that his command had been lately relieved, and that none of the men then on duty at the station knew anything about the locality of the hostile camp. I was fortunate enough to find, however, a Navajo captive at the station, who volunteered to conduct me to the camp and act as guide and interpreter. Leaving Fort Fountleroy on the 1st instant, I marched to a point south of the Rio Puerco, known as the Canon Well, where I arrived at night-fall and encamped. I gave orders to have the command under seams at Moonrise, and accordingly, when he moon rose, my party was in motion on the trail leading to the Indiana camp. The path taken by my give led in a westerly direction of several miles along the level valley of the Rio Puerco, and then turned abruptly to the north, ascending an elevated ridge covered with growth of evergreens, such as spruce, cedar, and pinon, and traversing a country furrowed and broken in every direction, thereby rendering my progress much slower than I had anticipated. i proceeded onward as rapidly as practicable, and at sunrise I reached a point from which my guide showed me the smokes of the enemy's camp-fires. From this point the only practicable approach was across a plain about a mile in width, and the probability was that my command would be observed by the savages, but as there was no alternative I marched forward at double-quick time. I had passed over more than two-thirds of the distance when, as i had anticipated, the alarm was given by 3 Indians, who had left the camp in search of water. The alarm spread so rapidly that by the time the head of my command reached one side of the camp the last savage was retreating under cover of the forest timber on the other. In their flight the Indians abandoned all their camp equipage, cooking utensils, and even portions of their clothing. Large quantities will potatoes were found in camp, which formed their chief article of subsistence, and which they obtained in the neighboring plain by digging. The surface of the plain had been dug up in various directions by the Indians in their search for the potatoes, and presented the appearance of having been rooted by heard of swine. Great numbers were found roasted at the camp-fires, and were eagerly eaten by my men, who had left camp in light marching order, unencumbered by blankets or haversacks. On entering the camp I sent my interpreter forward to the crest of a knoll in the vicinity, with instructions to hail the dispersed Navajoes, and tell them that unless they came in and surrendered themselves I would divide my command and pursue them immediately, in which case they need expect no quarter; but that in case they should surrender I would take them to Fort Canby, where the commanding officer would furnish them with means to travel to the reservation set apart for the friendly Navajoes. After a short parley, the interpreter came into camp followed by most of the warriors, who expressed themselves very willing to remove to the reservation; said that they were glad they were informed in time, and requested leave to bring in their families, who were dispersed in the neighboring ravines. This I readily grand, and told the warriors that I would return to my camp at the Puerco, where I should expect to see them at sundown. Soon after I marched back to my camp, and at sundown I had the satisfaction of seeing the entire band (110 Indians in all) at my camp.

I started back on the morning of the 3rd instant, and reached this post on the afternoon of the 4th instant with 112 Indians, having captured 2 Indians on the road. One of the teamsters of Russell's train recognized the Indian who shot Mr. Russell among those that I brought in. I entertain the hope that the removal of these Indians will render the transmission of mails and the passage of small trains a duty of less danger in future. During the scout the bearing and behavior of my men were all that I could expect from good soldiers.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

FRANCIS McCABE,

Captain Company L, First Cavalry, New Mexico Vols.

Second Lieutenant JOSEPH LAUGHLIN,

Post Adjutant.