HDQRS. DISTRICT OF WESTERN ARIZONA, Numbers 3.
 Tucson, Ariz. Ter., September 18, 1862.

I. The following extract from an act of Congress is published for the information of all concerned:

SECTION 20. And be it further enacted, That if any person shall sell, exchange, give, barter, or dispose of any spirituous liquor or wine to any Indian under the charge of any Indian superintendent or Indian agent appointed by the United States, or shall introduce or attempt to introduce any spirituous liquor or wine into the Indian country, such person, on conviction thereof before the proper district court of the United States, shall be imprisoned for a period not exceeding two years, and shall be fined not more than $300: Provided, however, That it shall be a sufficient defense to any charge of introducing or attempting to introduce liquor into Indian country, if it be proved to be done by order of the War Department, or of any officer duly authorized thereto by the War Department. And if any superintendent of Indian affairs, Indian agent, or sub-agent, or commanding officer of a military post has reason to suspect or is informed that any white person or Indian is about to introduce or has introduced any spirituous liquor or wine into the Indian country, in violation of the provisions of this section, it shall be lawful for such superintendent, agent, sug-agent, or commanding officer to cause the boats, stores, packages, wagons, sleds, and places of deposit of such person to be searches, and if any such liquor is found therein, the same, together with the boats, teams, wagons, and sleds used in conveying the same, and also the goods, packages, and peltries of such person shall be seized and delivered to the proper officer, and shall be proceeded against by libel in the proper court and forteited, one-half to the informer and the other half to the United States; and if such person be a trader, his license shall be revoked and his bond put in suit. And it shall, moreover, be lawful of rany person in the service of the United States, or for any Indian, to take and destroy and ardent spirits or wine found in the Indian country except such as may be introduced therein by the War Department. And in all cases arising under this act Indians shall be competent witnesses.

Approved February 13, 1862.

II. The whole of the District of Western Arizona is hereby declared to be Indian country and the above law will be rigidly enforced therein.

D. FERGUSSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding.