HEADQUARTERS,

Fort Walla Walla, September 11, 1862.

ACTING ASSISTANT ADJUTANT-GENERAL,

Headquarters District of Oregon, Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.:

SIR: Reliable information having been furnished me that a small party of Indians contemplated an attack upon the Government train between Snake River and Fort Colville, I have the honor to report that I have this day dispatched Captain Taylor, First Washington Territory Infantry, with an escort of ten mounted men, commanded by Lieutenant Apperson, First Oregon Cavalry, to examne into and report the facts. The depot at Palouse Crossing was moved from the right to the left bank of Snake River by the agent in charge for safety, in his fears that he would be disturbed by disaffected Indians, and that the public property was in jeopardy. It appears that on the Fort Colville road there has been some manifestation of hostile movements toward the Government employes, and that danger exists to the property in their charge. I have deemed it proper to send at once, and before any violence occurs, a small party on the road to examine into the matter. Captain Taylor is at present unemployed, and [I am] indispposed to give him command of his company until I hear the result of his resignation. He has been selected for this duty. He is instructed carefully to examine into the disposition, temper, and character of the different tribes of Indians, or of individual Indians, bordering the route, inquire into the truth of the late reports, and lay the result of his inquiry before Major Rumrill, commanding Fort Colville, which post he is directed to reach. He is to be here on his return not later than the 26th instant, when all the facts will be reported to you. It is made the duty of the small force under Lieutenant Apperson, accompanying Captain Taylor, to act purely as an escort to the latter officer unless any attack is made upon the train. It is expected that the command at Fort colville will be enabled to protect its supply train, and the principal object now is to get authentic information for the commanding officer of that postting to the safety of the supply train on its present upward trip. The undersigned is impressed with the belief that the surest mode to prevent Indian difficulties in this district of country is to employ the available force of his command in crushing out at once the early evidences of disaffection and hostility. Intelligence of danger is rapidly communicated at this time, and promptness and celerity of movement on the part of our troops, with speedy and sure punishment, will I trust prevent any concert of action among the Indians involving general or formidable disturbance.

Trusting that the general commanding the district will approve the disposition of the troops above named, I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JUSTUS STEINBERGER,

Colonel First Washington Territory Infantry, Commanding.