GENERAL ORDERS,
 HDQRS. DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, Numbers 80.
 Hilton Head, S. C., June 6, 1864.

The following sanitary regulations for the government of the troops serving in this department will be strictly enforced by all officers having charge of districts, posts, or camps:

I. Each camp must be thoroughly policed every morning and evening, and all garbage or refuse matter will be collected and buried in the sinks. Commanding officers will be held directly responsible for any neglect of police duty.

II. Each tent will be raised at least 18 inches from the ground, and placed on a platform, no obstruction being permitted to the wind passing freely underneath. The middle seam of the back of each tent, near the apex, to be opened about 24 inches, and a forked stick, 10 or 12 inches long, placed across, keeping it open at all times except during a violent storm. An officer of each company will inspect the tents of his men nightly to see that this provision is carried out. The bedding and clothing of the men be well aired every fair day.

III. Great care must be taken in the construction of proper sinks, which must be screened by pine or palmetto branches, and the debris covered every morning with at least 6 inches of sand. Sinks will be dug on different sides of the camps, and it will be the duty of the camp police to see that only those on the lee side of the camp are used.

IV. Commanding officers will require their men to bathe or wash themselves at least in each week, and change their under clothing once a week, or oftener, if practicable. Sentry boxes of lumber, or small shade arbors of brush-wood, will be erected in the vicinity of all points where sentries are stationed.

V. Desiccated mixed vegetables will be issued to the troops at least twice in each week, and must be carefully cooked in the following manner: Place the vegetables in could water after supper, and let them remain until the next morning; immediately after breakfast put them over the fire, with the water in which they were soaked, and let them boil four hours, adding fresh beef; salt to be put in when nearly done. An officer of each company will be detailed to superintendent the cooking of provisions, taking great care that all food prepared for the soldiers is properly cooked.

District commanders and officers of the medical staff will see that the provisions of this order are strictly complied with, and will promptly report any failure or neglect of the same.

By command of Major General J. G. Foster:

W. L. M. BURGER,

Assistant Adjutant-General.