CRAB ORCHARD, MO., May 30, 1864

Brigadier General C. B. FISK:

DEAR SIR: I assume the privilege of addressing the commander of my district in relation to bushwhackers in Ray County, Mo. From the earliest day of this rebellion I have been an active worker against traitors to this Government. There have been two raids made in this county in the last week. I, with a party of the loyal citizens of Crab Orchard, have been the first to the point of action. I, on the point of a raid being made on last Saturday night or last night got together 9 men. I took the brush. I landed on the Missouri River bank just at the dawn of day yesterday morning, and secreted my men at the crossings of these thieves. At 8 o'clock in the morning they sent a man out on the opposite side of the river; he halloed over. Just at that time I had been detected by arresting 3 young men who were passing the point where they had been swimming the river. This man who came out and halloed got on his horse and retired back into the brush.

They stole my horse the night of the 23rd. The marauders are threatening my store and life all the time, all, they say, for arresting Lewis Vandovier, as he was one of their friends. It is supposed in some circles that I am laying myself liable to be presented to the grand jury for passing through the country with armed men without any authority. Now, I ask you for your opinion on this point. Suppose, I or any of my men, kill a thief while acting in our own defense, what will be the consequences? The copperheads have the power in their own hands with the civil law in this county. They have not offered me nor the loyal people of this section any protection. We feel if we are protected it must be by our own strategy. Let civil law do as it may, we don't feel like letting the guerrillas assassinate and plunder us, and wait for the civil law to bring them to justice, for the civil law has never brought a felon to justice since the rebellion commenced. The rebels think it wrong for a Union man to sell goods in Ray County. I am attempting it with this fear, that when I retire at night I do not know but that I may be burned out or assassinated before the rising of the next sun, and that is the way Union men are protected here. I would be pleased to hear from you at your earliest convenience.

I am, sir, your most obedient servant,

ABRAHAM ALLEN.