HEADQUARTERS,
Camp Rio Mimbres, Ariz., March 1, 1864.

COLONEL: I have the honor to inform you that on Wednesday, the 24th [ultimo], I received a communication from Los Pinos Altos, stating that Indians had visited that place on the 13th instant, and that the citizens were in great fear, as the Indians had told them they would return on or about Thursday, the 25th. I at once concluded to try and catch them, if possible; so I left with 21 men on the evening of the 24th instant [ultimo] at 8 p. m., taking an old and indirect route, determined not to be seen, traveled until 4 a. m. of the 25th, and secreted myself in a canon until 9 p. m., then started again and went within about 3 miles of the town, hid again, and sent in a spy. He returned before daylight, saying there were no Indians there; so I laid over, hid in the thick brush, intending to lie there as long as I could to await for their arrival in town. They came about noon; word came, and I started to the place at about 5 p. m., arriving there them, and I killed 13, including the notorious chief Louis, successor to Mangas Colorado, chief of the Gila tribes. In my opinion not one escaped with a whole hide. This chief is the same that killed Private Bay, of Company D, First Infantry, California Volunteers, at Fort West, last fall, and the same that I had a fight with in Sierra Blanca Mountains in September last. I also captured a Mexican woman from them (whose narrative I append to this report as containing some very useful information) and one pony and bows and arrows in abundance. I followed the who escaped the next day about 7 or 8 miles, but could not overtake them. Returned safely to camp on the 29th without the slightest accident of any kind; not aman hurt. Marijenia Figueira says:

My father's family lived at Banamichi, a small mining town in Sonora. When I was seven years old the town was attacked by Indians. Myself an sister were taken prisoners and carried off; also a few other children of the town; besides this all the people of the town were killed, including my father and mother. This is my sister, the wife of Julian Aguirre. She was a prisoner five years; I have been a prisoner fifteenth years; am twenty-two years old. During the whole time I have been slave for Louis and his family; have been treated well; have never been married; have no children. Louis and 3 warriors were all of Mangas Colorado's tribe that were here; all the others were of the Chriricahu tribe. Louis and all of the warriors belonging to his tribe were killed; he was acting chief of the party. If we had got off well this time Cochise and his tribe would have come next time. All the Indians that came with this party were living near the mouth of Black River. We came by Fort West; have been eight days coming. The Navasjoies are at war with all the other tribes that I know of. They took all our stock; left us very poor; very poor indeed. We have no stock except 3 pies, and 1 of these the soldiers got last night. We have no dried meat; have nothing to live upon except mescal; have no dried mescal; have a very hard matter to gather enough to do from day to day. Can occasionally kill a deer. Have no powder or guns. Our guns ae nearly all worn out. We only get a little powder occasionally, when we can kill somebody. The Navajoes got some of our guns. We have no clothing. We have to live down in the valleys. We can not live up in the mountains; it is too cold. Runon and Victoria get powder and lead from aman named Zuloago,who is always on fierily terms with us, even when his Government is at war with us. Runnon and Victoria are bothover this way somewhere. I think Runnon and part of his people are in the Florida Mountains or at Lake Guzman to make campaigns against Las Cruces and Mimbres River.

William Aguirre is a citizen of Pinos Altos, and the captured woman was turned over to him. She desires to live with her sister. I feel it to be my duty to acknowledge valuable service rendered by Mr. William Market, in connection with this report; also Mr. Julian Aguirre.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAMES H. WHITLOCK,

Captain Fifth Infantry, California Volunteers, Commanding.

Colonel GEORGE W. BOWIE,

Commanding District of Arizona, Franklin, Tex.