HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE OHIO,
May 10, 1864.

[General SHERMAN:]

GENERAL: My opinion is in favor of the first of the plans you propose, ie., to take your whole army to Resaca. To leave my small command here (at Tunnel Hill and this place) would simply result in my being idle or being whipped. The moment Johnston discovered the move he would turn upon me, drive me back, and capture your supplies at Tunnel Hill, then turn upon you. If you can carry with you large supplies to Resaca than Johnston has north of that point, I believe your success would not be doubtful, even if Dalton were fortified toward the south, which I understand it is not. Dalton being not fortified toward the south, if you can carry supplies enough to last while you defeat Johnston in open field, and then reopen your communication with Chattanooga, your success seems more than probable. Would not 12,000 men be more certain to aid you by being with you in Johnston's rear, than by trying to hold Tunnel Hill with Johnston between it and the main army? If there was any certainty of my force being able to do what is desired in your second plan, I would regard the latter as less objectionable, for I understand that Thomas and McPherson are stronger than Johnston. With my present impression, I think it would be little more than throwing away my command, at least so far as the present operations are concerned, to leave it here.

I have perhaps expressed my opinion more decidedly than is justified by the short time I have had to consider the question, and my limited knowledge of some of the less important date upon which such as opinion must be founded. Longer consideration or more accurate knowledge might cause me to change my views. At all events, whatever the plan may be, I will cheerfully do my utmost to execute my part of it. I take it for granted you regard Chattanooga as impregnable against assault. My infantry is all here except one regiment at Red Clay. Stoneman's First Brigade was at Cleveland at noon. The other is to be there to-morrow. This is the most definite report I have about it. The cavalry is coming forward as rapidly as practicable.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. M. SCHOFIELD,

Major-General.