OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS,

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA,

San Francisco, October 10, 1862.

Brigadier General GEORGE WRIGHT:

SIR: Inclosed please find copies of letters from my supervisor at Round Valley Indian Reservation; also one written, I suppose J. Henley, who was one of my predecessors, and who has sons owning farms in the valley. The letter had no signature, which, I think, was simply an omission. In an interview with our Congressman, T. G. Phelps, last evening, he expressed himself thus: "See General Wright; inform him about the annoyances, the Indians that have been killed by the white people in the valley from time to time, the destruction of the Indian crops, their driving away the Indians, and threats to kill the rest of them if they don't leave, &c., and ask him to declare martial law in all the valley, for the whole is now an Indian military reservation. " Colonel Henely informed me that before he surveyed the whole valley into a reservation and gave notice that it should not be settled on any further, more than half the settlers that are now in the valley were in it then. The truth is, there are not five good Union men in the valley, except my employes, as the several elections show.

Mr. Phelps thinks "that when you see the necessity for such a course you will order sufficient troops to at once remove every man from the valley and then take possession of the same, and let them present their claims to Government for the damages sustained, and the Government will pay all loyal men for any such losses. " If ever a case of military necessity of the kind existed this is one, and I make the above suggestion to you at the instance of Mr. Phelps. Should all the Indians be driven off, as I fear they will, a war of extermination will inevitably be the result, and it would be too humiliating on the part of the Government to be thus coerced into purchasing farms and provisions (which have been nearly all made by Indian labor) after they have thus killed our Indians and destroyed our crops. I would be pleased to hear from you on this subject at your earliest convenience.

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,

GEORGE M. HANSON,

Superintendent of Indian Affairs, Northern Dist. of California.