Report of Major Theodore A. Coult, Fifth California Infantry, commanding Fort Bowie.

HEADQUARTERS FORT BOWIE,
Apache Pass, Ariz. Ter., August 9, 1862.

LIEUTENANT: I avail myself of the kindness of Captain McCleave First Cavalry California Volunteers, to send report of affairs at my post for the past week:

On Wednesday, August 6, at 2 p. m., Private McFarland, of Company G, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, was shot by the Apaches in a ravine about 600 yards from my camp. The man was engaged as stock herder, and at the time was alone and unarmed, in direct disobedience of positive orders to the contrary. A strict investigation proved no one to blame but himself. His story of the affair is this: That missing one cow from the herd he tracked her up the ravine, when, losing her trail, he was turning round to return, and an Indian stepped from behind a rock, about twenty feet from him, and fired. The ravine is deep, and this place entirely beynd view from the camp. He screamed and ran, two Indians pursuing some 200 yards, and scrambled up the bank in view of the camp and fell. At the first cry the garrison turned out, and a party reached the scene within a very few minutes after hefell, saving his scalp. He was shot through the right lung, but has been doing well since, and Doctor Wooster has high hopes of his speedy recover. If the man gets well I shall not seriously regret the occurrence, as it has aroused the men from the state of false security into which, from the non-appearance of Indians, they were raidly falling. Two parties, sent out immediately in different directions failed, to dicsover the villains.

On the morning of the 7th my cattle, eight in number, broke out of the corrla and got away. The night being dark and stormy and the corral as strongly constructed as the small force I had and the materials at hand afforded, I could attach no blame to any one in the case either. Lieutenant Harrover with a party followed them in the morning on the road toward Ojo de Los Planos for a distance of seven or eight miles, but could not get sight of them. There being no Indian or horse tracks on the road or its sides I think they had no agency in the matter. Had the cavalry been there then I might have recovered them. However great our chargin on the occurrence of these misfortunes, I sincerely think no blame can lie against myself or the other officers for their happening. My orders are very strict and Captain Hinds and Mr. Harrover prompt and energetic in carrying out my instructions. I am happy to say further that the men, though fully conscioua of their danger, and that in case of a defeat there is no retreat or hope of assistance, have ever exhibited a cheerful disposition to undertake all that is required of them. Up to to-day the service has been pretty hard on them. I have had but forty men for duty, and twenty-one is my detail for guard, so that some have been obliged to stand for two nights in succession. I am building, as defenses, out-works on four faces of the hill, but sufficiently near that either of them being attacked can be readily and safely re-enforced from the others. My breast-works are four feet and a half high and built of large stone, three feet wide on the bottom and from eighteen inches to two feet on top. hey are very substantial and will afford ample protectio against all kinds of small-arms. I have one already compelled eighty feet in length, covering the rear of my position, and another, over 100 feet long, nearly done. The latter protects my most exposed flank. If this post is to be permanent, I respectfully request that the command general will order some lumber sent from Mesilla by an early returning train for the constructions of the necessary office furniture, and that it may be furnished from Mesilla or Tuscom, with a force, set of carpenter's tools, grindstone, horse and mules shoes, shoeing hit, and such other things as are highly essential.

The express from headquarters of the column arrived safely at this post at 1 a. m. yesterday, and left at 2 p. m., escorted by fifteen men from this garrison to the mouth of the pass. The train, under command of Captain McCleave, arrived at noon to-day, and I have drawn from it what it mentioned in General Orders, Numbers 12. I have also received a re-enforcement of ten men of Company G (relieved from Mowry's Mine), and a lieutenant and twenty-five men from Company A, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, and a sergeant and twelve men from Company A, First Cavalry California Volunteers. I would respectfully suggest to the commanding general thatthere is a detachment of ten men from Captain Hinds' company at the crossing of the San Pedro, which, if relieved from Tucson, would relieve a like number of Company A, who could go forward and join their company.

I have the honor to remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

THEO. A. COULT,

Major Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding Fort Bowie.

Lieutenant B. C. CUTKER,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Column from California.