ADDENDA.

[Jones' statement, July 22, 1862.]

Started on the 15th. On the 16th went beyond Dragoon Spring about fifteen miles. On the 17th laid by in a canon above Ewell's Station. Remained all night. On the 18th laid over in a canon six or seven miles [from] Apache Pass. Thatafternoon about 3. 30 started out of canon onto the plain. Had traveled about five miles when the Indians discovered us and raised a smoke. We were then on a road, and traveled fast to get out of the bush onto the plain, as Jones expected an attack.

About five miles from there crossed a trail leading from Sierra Blanca of eleven horsemen and seven footmen, Indians. About four miles farther the Indians jumped of from their hiding place in brush. Soon as they ran about a quarter of a mile in our rear, they mounted their horses and came on at a gallop. I got down and we all tied our animals, as we were not in a condition to flee, and then prepared to fight. The Indians came on at a furious rate. Three of our animals broke away, which divided the Indians; some went after them, leaving others on foot, except one on horseback. The Mexican fired the sergeant's gun, but lost all the caps out of the breech. The Mexican was wounded in the hip. After he had mounted the mule we all mounted. The sergeant was thrown. We then tied our mules again. Then the mounted men came back and dismounted, and were crawling on us. I then told the sergant our only chance was to mount and make a rush. The Mexican begged us not to leave him. We told him we could not save ourselves, We mounted up and started. The sergeant, I think, never got out from among the Indians. They followed after me on horseback yelling, saying, "Now let's have a race. " "Mucha buena mula; " "Mucho bravo Americano. " Is hot one in the side, shot another in the shoulder; il sundown. I lost nearly all my panole; lost $84 in cash. I struck Cow Spring about 11 a. m. on the 19th intant. I got water, and staid all day in the station. Had made arrangements to fight from chimney. Indians did not come. Started out after dark. I crossed the lower crossing of Miembres (no water). The C. S. Army ad a picket there, which I passed. I went down to Cooke's Springs, expecting I could reach the Rio Grande. I avoided the water and went on. On the morning of the 20th I reached the Rio Grande at sundown. I found a rancheria at Picacho, and was taken prisoner and taken [to] Mesilla.