Journal of the march of a detachment of the Column from California, under the command of Thomas L. Roberts, Captain Company E, First Infantry California Volunteers, consisting of Company E, First Infantry California Volunteers, 72 men; Company B, Second Cavalry California Volunteers, Captain J. C. Cremony, 24 men; battery consisting; of two prairie howitzers, First Lieutenant W. W. Thompson, 20 men; detachment of Company H, First Infantry California Volunteers, First Lieutenant A. B. MacGowan, 10 men; 22 teams, Jesse R. Allen, wagon master. Total, 126 men, 242 animals.

July 10. - Left Tucson 4. 30 a. m. ; road level and good, through low mesquite. Halted infantry and battery at 11. 30 a. m; sent thrain and cavalry ahead; found tank about half full of water; had sufficient for the command that remained; road continues good and slightly rolling until within about seven miles of camp; here road leaves mesa and descends to bed of stream down two hills, one quite steep and both rocky; balance of the road to camp for the most part through low ground; will be bad after much rain. After desceding hills, roadpasses through narrow canon; good cover for Indians; about four miles and three-[quarters] becoming to camp water-holes few yards to right of road, but bad; from one mile to once and a half before coming to camp passed ruins of abode buildings left-hand side; camp on opposite side of first rise of ground after passing aode ruins; water excellent and in abundance it in it; wood sufficient. Arrived at Cienega 6 p. m. ; thirty miles.

July 12. - Left camp 1 a. m. ; road continued through low ground between three and four miles; road rough and badly water-washed. The road through here will be bad after much rain. On entering canon between barren hills, roads fork; keep to the left. Soon after entering canon come to steep rocky hill with gradual ascent following for half a mile; road balance of way to Sant Pedro hard and smotth, over rolling country, where water and grass are plenty, but wood scarce.

July 13. - Filled both thanks and divided command, taking with me sixty infantry, the battery, and eight cavalry - three of the latter to express back to Captain Cremony, whom I left in command. Left the detachment of Company H, Lieutenant MacGowan commanding, and three cavalrymen, agreeably to orders. Left camp 1 a. m. ; arrived at Dragoon Spring 8 a. m. Skirmished up canon to find water, which I found from one-half to three-quarters of a mile. Found plenty for the command I had, but no more. Dispatched Sergeant Mitchell of the cavalry and four men to examine springs on abother road, where I was informed there was plenty of water.

This night it rained very hard, and before Sergeant Mitchell returned expressed to Captain Cremony by the three cavalrymen remaining to move forward with the train and cattle. Sergeant Mitchell reprts plenty of water at the place he went to examine, and close to the surface, similar to the Maricopa Wells. I immediately went to work improving the canon for watering purposes, and although the following morning there was no water running in the canon where the night before it was a perfect torrent, had plenty for all the animals of the entire command; going up the canon will find several water holes; keep on until come to spring, which I covered over with brush house to keep it for drinking and cooking purposes. Still above this found a natural basin in rock, which I cleaned out, rendering it capable of holding from 600 to 800 gallons.

July 14. - Left Camp 5 p. m., with same command and one tank, to make the forty miles to Apache Pass. Road descends into plain from five to six miles, good all seasons of the year; then for seven to eight miles road bad and about two miles of it across an alkali flat covered with water from two to four inches deep, which is very bad; after whichsome hard, level road, followed by succession of hills to Apache Pass Staton, but hard and gravelly, with portions graded; grass scarce, wood plenty, and water to be had by hard fighting.

July 15. - Arrived at Apache Pass Station 12. 30 p. m. About half a mile from station the Apaches attacked the rear of my command, and, I am sorry to add, killed Private, C. M. O'Brien, of Company G, First Infantry, attached to Thompson's battery, who was one of the rear guard, and wounded Andrew Sawyer, teamster, in the thigh; not seriously, however. They, however, met with a arm reception, my men killing four of them. As soon as possible I formed as skirmishers, and after a sharp little contest drove them off, bringing everything in safe except as above stated. On going to the spring for water deployed skirmishers, supported by one of Lieutenant Thompson's guns. Proceeding up the canon cautiously, found the Indians posted high above us, from where they kept up a rattling fire upon us. Called my men out and divided them into two parties of skirmishers, sending them up the hills on either side of the canon, shelling the high points ahead of them. The Indians seemed very loath to let me have water, and fought determinatedly, but they found us too much for them; ut very kept us from the water until after 4 p. m. In the forst engagement for water they killed Private John Barr, of Company E, First Infantry California Volunteers. As soon as I could get water for the horses I dispatched Sergeant Mitchell and the cavalry with an express to Captain Cremony, informing him of the condition of things ahead, and that I would come to meet him as soon as I possibly could with a portion of my command; which part were also attacked, full particulars of which you will find in the report of Captain Cremony to me, herein inclosed. * As soon as I could get water enough for night and morning I withdrew my men, not having enough to hold both the camp and water and go to the relief of Captain Cremony, and as soon as they could get a cup of coffee I started with twenty-eight men and marched back fifteen miles, where I found the train parked and safe. We marched this on my canteen full of water, being all we had, but my men did it without a murmur.

July 16. - Started with train in the morning without breakfast, there being no wood to cook with. Before entering the pass made the following disposition of my force, viz: In front a line of skirmishers; dismounted the cavalry, excepting three, to assist the three men driving the cattle, and distributed them one to each wagon, the cattle immediately behind the train, and in the rear of all another line of skirmishers, and brought everything is safe. Had to repeat the performance of yesterday to obtain water, which I succeeded in doing without losing a man. Dug the spring out so as to increase its capacity fourfold; walled a portion of it and fixed everything as well as I could; put 200 gallons in tank for drinking and cooking, when commenced watering animals, which is rather slow work, as the spring runs but a small stream, and it was late in the night before all the animals were watered. Held the spring until ready to start the next day. Found the graves of privates of First Cavalry, viz, Albert Schmidt, James F. Keith, and Peter Maloney, killed by Apaches June 25, 1865.

July 17. - Left camp 8 a. m; road passes through canon about two miles; most of the way very narrow between high mountains. About three miles from mouth of canon found three bodies a short distance from the left-hand side of the road, and still farther to the left another body. They lay out on the plain away from all cover. Two had on Government shoes. Doctor McKee, the surgeon, decided them all to be Indians. Some distance farther on to the left of [road] found what appeared to have been a cavalry camp, undoubtedly that of Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre. Still farther on, close to the right of road, found a large blood stain on the ground and hair, apparently that of a white man, and at different places in this vicinity found the following articles: Arrows, some broken, one iron-pointed; a pistil-holster, blood-stained, with the initials "N. W. " or "M. W. "; a clay pipe; also an Indian's bag (blood-stained), containing smoking material and pipe. Road good and desceding to San Simon. Foudn water in holes, being nothing but surface water, very muddy and bad for drinking and cooking; can find no other; have been from six to seven miles above.

THOS. L. ROBERTS,

Captain Company E, First Infantry California Volunteers.

SAN SIMON STATION, July 19, 1862.