[Inclosure G.] HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF NEW MEXICO, Santa Fe, N. Mex., August 11, 1862.

Brigadier General JAMES H. CARLETON,

Commanding Column from California, District of Arizona:

GENERAL: At an early period of last year I reported that an invasion of Texas from new mexico, although practicable, was not a practicable undertaking; the length of the march, the desert character of the country to be traversed, the scarcity of supplies on the route, the necessity of bringing from the Missouri River or from the Pacific coast every article of equipment and munition and much of the food, all cinspired to make it an undertaking of great magnitude and of questionable value; and that the troops that would be required for the expedition could be more usefully employed at points that are not only near the appeared of supply but near the points to be attacked. The same views appeared to have been entertained at the Headquarters of the Army, as before my report could have reached Washington I received instructions to withdraw first a part and afterward the whole of the regular force then in New Mexico. These last instructions were subsequently so modified as to direct the withdrawal of these troops "as such time and in such manner as would not expose the Territory to consequent or invasion before the volunteer troops of New Mexico are property organized, armed, and posted. " At a later period I reported that it would be difficult, if not impracticable, to raise the additional force authorized for this Territory; nor do I think it desarable that it should be done if it is practicable to send one or two volunteer regiments from the East to replace the regular troops when they are withdrawn. The New Mexican Volunteers, unless supported by regular troops or by volunteers drawn from some other section of the country, cannot be relied on to resist invasion of the this department I received instructions from the Secretary of War to disband the New Mexican Voluntthought proper. The force from the Department of the Mississippi was subsequently diverted from its destination, and soon after information was receievd that your command was on the march. I have coupled these changes with the instructions for the movement of the regular troops, and supposed that your command was intended for service in New Mexico.

Acting upon this supposition, I have reported that "the near approach of General Carleton's force justifies the opinion that the regular troops may now be withdrawn, as originally intended, without detriment to the service," and have already made some arrangements for the movement; but as there have been some material changes since these instructions were given, I do not intend to put any of the regular troops beyond the reach of recall until I receive further instructions. I have been thus particular, not only for the purpose of answering your question, but to particular, not only for the purpose of answering your question, but to indicate the policy and instructions under which I have been acting, and which I suppose will devolve upon when the regular troops leave the country. In the arrangements that were made made for the reoccupation of Arizona it was my intention to restore the sovereignty of the United States in its original integrity, post the troops os as to protect the inhabitants and guard against invasion, and, in addition, to occupy such points in Texas as could be reached without throwing the troops so employed the reach of support. This has been directed in general terms in the instructions given to the commander of the Southern Military District, and who would also have been the commander of the expdition organized for that purpose. Copies of these instructions have laready been furnished you. The retreat of the rebels and the approach of your command rendered it unnecessary to send this force below the Jornada, and, with the exception of the infantry e cavalry force with Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre, it has been recalled. The detachments will also be recalled, but the movement will not be commenced until your arrangements are so far perfected that it can be done without incovenience.

I do not think that an invasion of New Mexico will again be attempted by the Rio Grande; but if our troops in the Southwest should meet with any serious reserves, it may be by the Canadian or attempts may be made to interrupt our communications with the East. This last I have regarded as the most probable danger, and some time since requested the commander of the Department of Kansas to place a sufficient force on that line (within his department) to secure it. The renewal of the disturbances in Missourihas prevented this, and I am now putting some of the Colorado troops on the line. If there should be no change in the order for the removal of theregular troops a part of your command will probably be needed at and above Fort Craig. I have estimated the force required at that post and the Rio Grande as far as Fort Bliss at 2,000 men. I infer from your letter of May 3 that you can readily be re-enforced from California, and there is no doubt that troops can better be spared from ythat State than from any other quarter. I make these suggestions now for your consideration, and will be pleased to hear from you in relation to them before any general movement of the regular troops takes place.

Very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,

ED. R. S. CANBY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding Department.