HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES,

Port Hudson, La., May 31, 1864

Brigadier-General DWIGHT,

Chief of Staff, Hdqrs. Dept. of the Gulf, New Orleans, La.:

GENERAL: I have the honor to report that I sent out a flag of truce yesterday for the purpose of making an effort to recover Assistant Surgeon Mason, who was taken at the raid on the pest-house of this post on Saturday last. The officer in charge reports that he proceeded some 10 miles back, but failed to find the doctor. He learned that he had been carried, in a very feeble condition, some 20 miles into the interior. He also reports that numerous squads of rebel scouts are scouring the country. I have also to report that the telegraph wire and poles were cut for several miles between here and Baton Rouge on Saturday last. I caused them to be repaired on Sunday. They are to-day reported to be again cut. I have sent a party with an escort to repair them.

I beg leave to represent that the mounted force at this post is wholly insufficient to perform the service needed. It is scarcely adequate to the discharge of picket duty. If I had a cavalry force of 1,000 men and a steamer that could transport a battery, and a detachment of 250 mounted men, I could hope to protect the telegraph line between here and Baton Rouge, and also some distance up the river. I cannot too urgently express the necessity of having more cavalry. I have the honor again to call the attention of the commanding general to the Sixty-second Regiment, U. S. Infantry (colored). By letters to Brigadier-General Andrews, dated March 23, 1864, it was ordered to Baton Rouge to demolish certain portions of the works there, and was ordered then to return to Port Hudson. By Field Orders, Numbers 27, headquarters Department of the Gulf, April 26, 1864, paragraph 8, the regiment was ordered to report to me at this post as soon as the work for which it was ordered to Baton Rouge was completed. The regiment has not yet reported at this post.

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,

DANIEL ULLMANN,

Brigadier-General of Volunteers, Commanding Post.