HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF ARIZONA,
Mesilla, September 23, 1862.

Lieutenant BEN. C. CUTLER,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Santa Fe:

I have the honor to report that I have just returned from a personal inspection of the district down the Rio Grande as far as Franklin. At that point and at Hart's Mill everything is progressing satisfactorily. As I have communicated to the general commanding in a private note by last express, the animals, battery and cavalry horses and train mules at Camp Johnson are not thriving; in fact, they look and are lower in flesh than I have seen them on the campaing. With a wide extent of county to watch and defend, with comparatively a small command, the efficiency of the latter under such circumstances must depend greatly upon its mobility. I have deemed it, therefore, imperative to look up better grazing at some point adjacent to more substantial forage, and for the latter, when I see the absolute necessity of so doing, I shall incur the expense of providing sufficient to prevent at least the animals from getting too poor to be serviceable. The general commanding directed the invitation of proposals for 100 tons of hay delivered at Fort Fillmore and an equal quantity at Mesilla. The contract has been awarded at $30 per ton. As I may find it necessary to locate the cavalry camp at a point remote from Fort Fillmore, I respectfully ask permission to have the delivery of the hay for that point changed either to Mesilla or to whatever locality may be deemed most advisable. After detaching one company from Fort Fillmore to relieve the garrison at Craig there will remain but one at the former point. I beg to suggest that I can have matters much in hand by abandoning Fillmore, and askpermission to do so. To watch the approach by Fort Quitman, if a cavalry camp can be found near San Elizario, Captains Pishon and Wellman will be stationed there with scouting parites as far as grazing and water will permit. Captains McCleave and Shirland will alternately move out on that Fort Stanton route. The occupation of Fillmore seems under the circumstances useless, and is embarrassing in consequence of the posts in the district so far outnumbering the facilities for medical attendance. No progress whatever has been made in obtaining wheat and corn in the lower part of the district under the order of the general commanding that the people should sell their grain at $3 per fanega. An agent has been dispatched to that section for the purpose of buying the grain at the price named, and funds for payment have been placed at Franklin. I am in hopes of being able ere long to report greater success.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. R. WEST,

Colonel First Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding.