Colonel C. ROSS SMITH,

Chief of Staff.

HEADQUARTERS FIRST CAVALRY DIVISION,
February 9, 1864.

COLONEL: I submit the following report of the operations of this division during the recent demonstrations:

The division moved as ordered on the morning of the 6th, crossing the Robertson River in two columns, at Smoot's or Hume's Ford and at Aylor's Ford, where the enemy's cavalry pickets were driven in. These retired before the command, offering but slight resistance, to the Rapidan, which river was reached about 4 o'clock in the afternoon of the 6th. Owing to the heavy roads and obstructions which had to be cleared away for the passage of the artillery, the Reserve Brigade and battery did not get up in time to do anything on the 6th.

Colonel Chapman's command, consisting of parts of the First and Second Brigades, moved up to the fort with but little opposition, finding only cavalry (Lomax's brigade of three regiments) on this side. It was driven across the river and the banks were picketed by our troops that night. Early in the morning of Barnett's Ford, when brisk skirmishing with small-arms and a lively duel was kept up by the artillery of Gibbs' brigade with that of the enemy until after midday.

The enemy did not show much infantry till a movement was made by us to cross the ford, when a brigade, which a deserter reported five regiments strong, moved down to the ford to support the skirmishers occupying the defenses on the south bank. Another camp of about a brigade, located to our right looking toward the ford, did not display any troops at all. The enemy appeared to desire to be quiet and made no unnecessary noise or demonstration. It was not until my artillery opened that the other side showed any, but then the enemy fired very rapidly from two positions about a mile apart, the guns in one battery being heavy artillery. The demonstration was kept up until 1 p. m. on the 7th, when receiving orders to return I did so, recrossing the Robertson by Clark's and Aylor's Fords. The enemy did not molest us on our return and the command arrived in camp the same evening, without other loss than the killed and wounded, a list of which I inclose. But 5 prisoners were made. The country through which we passed is rich and productive. There seems to be considerable forage yet in shock on the farms between the two rivers. From 12 to 15 head of beef-cattle were brought in by the command. There was not much hard fighting, but enough to show that the men and officers of the division had lost none of the spirit of last year's campaign. Colonel Chapman's command pressed forward vigorously, giving Lomax, with his little brigade, no time to rest even in the strongest positions, and Captain Ash, of the Fifth Cavalry, made a spirited charge with his squadron driving more than his number of the enemy's infantry out of a peculiarly strong place.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

W. MERRITT,

Brigadier-General of Volunteers, Commanding Division.