OFFICE SUPERINTENDENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS,

Olympia, Wash. Ter., October 3, 1862.

General B. ALVORD,

Commandant of Oregon Mil. Dist., Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.:

SIR: I have the honor to inform you that on my return home at the first of the present week I immediately advised the Commissioner of your having issued more explicit orders to the officers in command east of the mountains to prevent trespass on the lands of the Indians and to suppress the traffic in liquor. I find much uneasiness and dissatisfaction among the Nez Perce Indians, which is spreading amongst the adjoining tribes, and am well satisfied that there is good reason to fear a serious outbreak there before the winter sets in unless great watchfulness and care shall be exercised. The removal of trespassers from their grazing and agricultural lands and the breaking up of the whisky shops scattered throught the reservation, if done thoroughly, judiciously, and speedily, will have much to do with allaying the excitement and restoring the confidence of the Indians. I have therefore respectfully to ask that you will not at present diminish the force now placed there or permit them to relax any of their efforts to secure the faithful observance of treatry stipulations until I can see you again, as it is my purpose to return to that region in the course of a week or two that I may satisfy myself more fully as to the indications. I trust also that you will instruct Major Rumrill, at Fort Colville, to use every means in his power to secure the faithful observance of the amendment of last session to the intercourse act, as it refers particularly to the introducng to introduce spirituous liquors, &c., into an Indian country. The whole of that upper region comes under that denomination, and the introduction of ardent spirits for the purpose of traffic in any shape is expressly forbidden, and the provisions of the law for its exclusion should be enforced to the very letter where parties are knowingly and willfully persisting in these violations.

Very respectfully, yours,

C. H. HALE,

Superintendent of Indian Affairs Washington Territory.