General HUMPHREYS.

HDQRS. FIRST DIVISION, SECOND ARMY CORPS,
March 22, 1864.

COLONEL: I have the honor to submit the following report of the operations of my command on the 6th of 7th of February last:

In obedience to orders from headquarters Second Corps, my division moved toward Morton's Ford at 7 o'clock on the morning of the 6th. When within 1 mile of the ford I was informed by Lieutenant-Colonel Walker, assistant adjutant-general of the corps, that Major-General Warren was unable to leave his quarters on account of sickness, and that the command of the corps devolved upon me. The instructions which he then showed me directed that the Second Corps should move to Morton's Ford and make a demonstration during the 6th, 7th, and 8th. On riding forward to reconnoiter I found that the enemy had a picket-line along the river, and a force of 30 or more men in rifle-pits directly at the ford. I directed Brigadier-General Hays, commanding Third Division, to send a brigade across the river at the ford and to advance it half a mile beyond. This was done in the most gallant manner, and nearly the whole force at the ford was captured without the loss of a man. This brigade then advanced with little opposition to a ridge about three-quarters of a mile from the river, where it halted about a rifle-shot from the enemy's intrenchments. The enemy making a considerable show of force in front of General Owen's brigade, at the request of General Hays the two remaining brigades of the Third Division were sent across the river.

Understanding as I did that the orders from army headquarters were not to precipitate an engagement, but to draw a large force of the enemy to our front, I determined not to advance farther, but to hold our position. To accomplish this I made the following disposition: The left of the Third Division rested near the river opposite Stringfellow's house, but the right was on open ground at some distance from the river. To protect the right, which was much the weakest in infantry, the rifled batteries of Captains Thompson and Arnold were placed in position on the high ground near the river bank, so as to cover completely with their fire any approach of the enemy on our right. A section of Captain Ricketts' battery, supported by a regiment of infantry, was placed in position near Stringfellow's house, so as to enfilade any force advancing against our left. The other four guns of Captain Ricketts were placed behind the crest near Captain Arnold's position, ready to come into battery at any moment if needed. At the same time the Second Division, Brigadier-General Webb, commanding, was advanced to within a short distance of the river, while the First Division was in the edge of the woods.

Between 4 and 5 o'clock in the afternoon Major-General Warren arrived on the ground and took command of the corps. I resumed command of my division, and by command of General Warren sent the remainder of the First Brigade to the support of the section of artillery at Stringfellow's house.

During the 7th my division was not engaged, and at sunset we returned to camp.

The gallantry of General Hays, whose division did all the fighting, was conspicuous. His report will doubtless give you a list of his officers who distinguished themselves. If the object of our movement was to make a demonstration merely, and cause the enemy to mass a large force in our front, I am confident it was entirely successful.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN C. CALDWELL,

Brigadier General, U. S. Volunteers, Commanding First Division.