HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF KANSAS,
Fort Leavenworth, January 27, 1864.

Colonel WOODSON,

Provost-Marshal, Saint Joseph, Mo.:

COLONEL: Yours of the 25th instant is duly receive. If there is any utility in the publicity of my letter of the 23rd,* I see no objections to its going to the public. I have no concealed opinions as to the matter I wrote and will write on the subject of border difficulties. You know the public of all shades and sides, and have a good opportunity to know if any latent treason lurks on your side. I hope you will make that matter a study. You see the people on the border fear the returning rebels, and after so many have broken their parole they have reason to be apprehensive. In the mean time it is our duty to suppress every tumult promptly and if possible keep down strife. By so doing we can make safe and encourage the truly loyal, peaceable people to plow, sow, and reap. Even rebels must see that the rebellion has no possible change to recover Missouri, and they have therefore nothing to gain by keeping up a fight here on this frontier. A few thieves and scoundrels might profit by it, as no doubt they have done, but honest men are sure to be the losers. Arguments, however, have very little influence on such rogues; they will only understand force, fear, and forfeiture, which are the real weapons of war, and in such times the only security for life and property.

Major Hunt has brought down 3 or 4 prisoners, including the landlord Sela, of whom your witness testified. They are in tribulation, and I have no doubt the people of Elwood will feel alarmed and restrained in their toleration of rogues. It is a short of suburb to your town, and when the ice was solid, it must have been a very convenient resort for thieves and vagrants. Some foolish persons came over and secured the arrest of a man now in Leavenworth for some trespass or larceny committed last March. Some think it was for the very purpose of getting up a State quarrel, or mob effort to rescue the rogue, and a corresponding fuss on the other side.

I told the parties they had better let old sores alone and attend to recent matters. I know some rogues, on either side, who have remained away from home for years to avoid process, and no doubt they deserve hanging; still it is not best to bring about ami calb relations between the good citizens of either side for the accommodation of the malicious elements to fall upon their victims. Bringing up old scores would only open old sores, and it is better that such wrongs should go unredressed and the rogues un whipped of justice than to trouble society with the bother of their trial, conviction, and punishment. Now the rogues begin to cry out against crime, if committed recently, and by avoiding old offenses we may hope for opponents as to the new, and allies even in some who have learned wisdom in the bitter school of adversity and shame. As your border city, the second in size and importance in Missouri, adjoins my command, and may for many reasons deserve my special attention, I will always be glad to know of whatever instructions you may be advised of, and you may expect always my anxious solicitude for your peace and property.

I remain, colonel, yours, very truly,

S. R. CURTIS,

Major-General.