JANUARY 30-FEBRUARY 3, 1864.-Expedition from Batesville to near Searcy Landing, Ark.

Report of Captain Albert B. Kauffman, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry.

BATESVILLE, ARK., February 5, 1864.

SIR: In accordance with instructions from headquarters District of Northeastern Arkansas, I left Batesville with a detachment of Eleventh Missouri Cavalry Volunteers, 75 men, at 11 p. m., January 30. Crossing White River at this point, I look the Jacksonport road to McGuire's place; thence south along Dupartee Creek to Grand Glaize, arriving at the Glaize about sundown the 31st. I remained at the Glaize about two hours, until Captain Castle arrived with a detachment of the Eleventh Missouri and Third Arkansas, under Captain Dunscomb, who had left Batesville at the same time I did, but marched by the way of Jacksonport. Captain Castle on his way down captured 2 prisoners, one a river pilot, whom he brought with him. Taking command of both detachments, I at once marched for the point indicated in your instructions, I at once marched for the point indicated in your instructions, on Glaize Creek, the supposed camp of McRae, with the intention of attacking his camp at daybreak, but owing ot the swollen condition of the streams and the difficulties encountered in crossing the Dupartee, I did not reach his supposed camp until 8 a. m., February 1. I found his camp broken up, and learned he had left some two days previous, marching in the direction of Denmark. His camped did not indicate more than 30 or 40 men, and were said to be Little's company. As Captain Dunscomb, with detachment of Third Arkansas, was to proceed to Little Rock, I detailed Captain Castle, with detachment of Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, to proceed with him as far as Searcy Landing. With my detachment I moved up to Denmark, where I bivouacked for the night. I learned that a detachment had passed during the night from Batesville. Taking their trail, I moved down the Rock road to within 5 miles of Searcy Landing, where I met the detachment under Captain Castle returning. From him I learned that the troops that proceeded me were of the First Nebraska and had joined Captain Dunscomb, Third Arkansas, and were sufficient to go through.

When about to return with my command I was informed by a citizen, who had returned from up the road in the direction I had come, that within a mile he saw several men mounted pass off the road. I at once directed Captain Castle to move with a portion of his command, making a detour to the left; with the other portion of his command to make a corresponding movement to the right, while with my own detachment I would move slowly up the road. It was not long before Captain Castle, in the timber to the left, came upon 5 of these men, whom he immediately pursued, following them some 3 miles, killing 1 and capturing 2 others. The rest made their escape, their horses being too fresh for our jaded animals. These men belonged to Little's company, the same who had been encamped on Glaize Creek. Being satisfied that there is no considerable number of rebels within a reasonable distance this side of Red River, I determined to return at once to Batesville.

I moved with my detachment that evening by the Rock road back to Denmark. Captain Castle moved with his detachment around to the right in the direction of Glaize Creek, and arrived at Denmark about the same time with my own. I remained with the command in Denmark until the following morning (the 3rd), and then marched directly to Batesville, where I arrived at about 6 p. m. of that day.

I am sorry to say that one man of Company L, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, deserted at Dupartee bridge, taking with him his horse and arms; while another or the same company lost his horse and arms by letting him stray off. Two horses were abandoned to the road from exhaustion and were not able to be brought back. One lieutenant of Little's company and 11 prisoners were captured, and several horse, which were turned over by Captain Castle to the provost-marshal. The lieutenant and 2 of the prisoners were captured by Captain Dunscomb, Third Arkansas. Inclosed is a map of the route traveled by my command. Casualties, none.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

A. B. KAUFFMAN,

Captain, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry Volunteers.

Captain FILLEBROWN,

Asst. Adjt. General, District of Northeastern Arkansas.