HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES,
Matagorda Peninsula, January 25, 1864

Brigadier General W. P. BENTON,

Commanding Post at Indianola:

You will immediately proceed to the work of fortifying your position at Indianola, and make it as strong as possible against attack, both by land and water, and calculating not on a larger garrison than you now have with you, but possibly a smaller one. You will erect a strong battery on the high shell bank near the hospital, which we stood on yesterday, large enough for four guns; also a battery large enough for three guns on the high front, across the first bayou above the town on the left of the road, which I showed you yesterday, making one face for three guns, looking up toward Oldtown, and nearly perpendicular to the road, and another nearly parallel to the water on the left, with room for three guns to sweep the plain in front of your position; and another high one on the right to cover the guns from a cannonade from the water, and where two guns might be mounted. These works are to be strengthened by rifle-pits.

You will also erect a work in the lower end of the town, having it as much masked as possible, and capable of using two guns toward the bay and two toward the land approaches, and also some small masked covers in the town, which, with their guns, will best command the channel. You will also industriously strengthen your position in addition to the above by such works as in your judgment are suitable. You are also directed to push out your infantry vedettes, to be sent from your main picket force, at least half a mile in your front, beyond the bayou near the bridge at the old City Hospital, and stretching across the plain from water to water. This line of vedettes is merely for lookouts and to give an alarm by firing on the approach of a hostile force, and thereby calling out the picket reserve, who will hold the attacking force in check at all hazards. A discreet officer will always be posted in command of the picket reserve at the bridge near the hospital, and this bridge and the one below will be left prepared for immediate and entire destruction in case an attempt is made to force a passage.

In addition to the line of infantry vedettes above mentioned (whose posts and places ought to be changed each day), you will, about dusk every evening, send out a few mounted vedettes half a mile beyond them, to keep a lookout by moving around occasionally, and who will come in at daylight, and their place be supplied in the daytime by a small mounted patrol, which will move about the front a few times each day. A lookout will constantly be kept at the signal station on the top of the house, to notify you the moment a force is seen approaching, and to keep you advised of what is going on in your front at a distance of 2 or 3 miles, and your whole command will be kept constantly on the alert, and ready to be turned out under arms at a moment's notice. In the defense of a place like Indianola there are many arrangements which can be made, such as obstructions to cavalry like troops des coups, crows-feet ditches, &c., which readily suggest themselves to the ingenuities of a commanding officer, and which cannot be specified in written instructions. I rely on your activity and industry to make your post perfectly defensible by a small garrison-say 1,500 men, probably-against a large force.

In addition to the company of the Second Engineers, Corps d'Afrique, which has for some days been under orders to report to you, another company of the same regiment will be sent you. These companies are to work in entrenchments and such other work in their proper sphere as may be required of them. From reports I have heard of them their work heretofore has lagged so much as to discredit their officers. I rely on you to discipline and control the officers so that they shall work them more than full quantity. I have also ordered another of the 30-pounder Parrott guns to report to you. No report has as yet been received here relating to the capture of the 5 men of whom you spoke yesterday. I wish you would inquire into this and have a duplicate sent. I have ordered that all dispatches from here to you shall be sent by an orderly or a staff officer, and you will make the same arrangement.

I have the honor to remain, with respect,

N. J. T. DANA,

Major-General.
