HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, Jacksonville, July 27, 1864.

COMMANDING OFFICER,

Picolata:

SIR: You will receive by this an order directing you to proceed to Palatka. Having fulfilled that order, you will by command of the general observe carefully the following instructions:

After you have landed your force you will place the guns in position to guard against attack and send out your patrols to scout thoroughly the neighboring country. No patrol should consist of less than 15. You will collect all the negroes and refugees in your neighborhood, or who come into your lines, subsisting them upon the 500 rations which will be sent you by this boat. These rations should be used as economically as possible. You will drive in and slaughter what beef-cattle are to be had in your neighborhood, and which are necessary to subsist both you own troops and the negroes and refugees on fresh beef. You will keep your boats always in readiness to land those who come in to you on the opposite side of the river, if necessary. A force of U. S. troops will march to-morrow from Magnolia to Marion County, proceeding by the Bellamy road. All prisoners taken will be carefully guarded until they can be forwarded to the provost-marshal here. You will send your patrols to scout the country as far as to the point where Orange Creek joins the Ocklawaha. Be particularly guarded against any surprise from Dickison's rebel cavalry. You will build one complete dock, and after that is completed go to work on another, and you will drag the river carefully for torpedoes. You will issue stringent orders to all your force against pillage of any kind, and see that your orders in this regard are carried out to the letter. Any pillaging of houses or property or destruction of either or of standing crops will be severely punished. This will not interfere with your taking such stores as are necessary for subsistence of your men and horses, but it must be taken in the regular manner. All the old corn which you find you will secure, taking such horses and teams as are necessary for the purpose, and storing it at Palatka.

I am, sir, very respectfully,

M. BAILEY,

Captain and Assistant Adjutant-General.