Major C. T. CHRISTENSEN,
Asst. Adjt. General, Hdqrs. div. of West Mississippi:

MAJOR: In compliance with General Orders, Numbers 3, headquarters Division of West Mississippi, I beg to report regarding affairs in this district and its vicinity. Most of the rebel troops in West Florida and Alabama have left to re-enforce Johnston at Atlanta and Polk, Forrest, and Roddey's army, on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, in Mississippi. Refugees and deserters report the balance of rebel troops in my neighborhood distributed as follows: Mobile, militia only enough to do the guard duty; Fort Morgan, 600 men; Camp Withers, two companies cavalry; Camp Andrew, at Bonsecours Bay, four companies infantry, guarding salt-works; Camp Powell, near Perdido River, one company cavalry; at Pollard, five companies infantry and the Fifteenth Confederate Cavalry, Colonel Maury commanding, under marching orders; at Fifteen-Mile Station, on the pensacola and Pollard Railroad, 500 cavalry and three pieces artillery; between the Escambia and Chattahoochee Rivers, three companies of cavalry; at and around Milton, one-half company at Elba, one-half at Abbeville, one-half at Newton, and one at Marianna.

Considering the comparatively very small number of rebel troops thus scattered in West Florida and Alabama, in twenty counties, comprising more than 20,000 square miles, I beg respectfully to recommend a cavalry raid as far as Columbus, Ga. Possessing the most minute information, I am confident that 2,000 men, well mounted and armed, would be sufficient to do the work safely and obtain brilliant results of vital importance, facilitating greatly the success of our armies in Virginia and Georgia, and while much reducing the rebel resources in general, forcing, especially, starvation upon Mobile, thus rendering one of the most formidable rebel strongholds comparatively helpless. If enabled by the commanding general to make the raid, I would enter Saint Andrew' Bay on steamers, land near Bethem's Mill, at McCormick's Landing (15 feet depth), and destroy the numerous salt-works, with a daily produce of 500 bushels of salt for the so-called Confederacy; take the Hickory (Orange) Hill road, and, leaving Marianna, Abbeville, and Fort Gaines on the right, enter Newton (a rebel depot for bacon and corn), strike the terminus of the Macon and Georgetown Branch Railroad at Eufaula, destroy the railroad and telegraph line, and leaving Union Spring to the left, cross the railroad at Silver's Station, and destroy the Mobile and Girard Railroad, enter Columbus, Ga., destroy all the Government machine-shops, factories and manufactories, and fifteen warehouses full of cotton; destroy also the Columbus and Macon, Columbus and Opelika, and West point and Montgomery Railroads. From Opelika I would continue on the north side of the railroad to Wetumpka, a military prison, with over 3,000 Union prisoners, and, liberating the, march upon Montgomery, the capital of Alabama, and destroying the railroad around the city, with the Government machine-shops and cotton warehouses, proceed on the public road east of the railroad down to Pollard; there also destroy the railroad, numerous engines, and very valuable rolling-stock, and return from Pollard via Fifteen-Mile House and Pensacola to Barrancas.

Along the line above designated the roads are good, somewhat sandy in Florida, but hard in Alabama, nowhere intersected by rivers, it being throughout the water divide. The country from Hickory Hill upward is rich and productive. Men and horses could subsist upon the country and find everywhere good fresh water in abundance.

The people on the designated line from Hickory Hill to Columbus are tired of rebellion and anxious to return to the Union, and the woods being full of deserters, I am confident that by starting with 2,000 men I would strike at Columbus with double that number.

I beg to inclose (Sub-A*) a table of distances, going by water 120 miles and by land 452; time required, sixteen to twenty days. A glance upon the map of the United States shows, and the past conduct of the rebellion proves, that the Mobile, Montgomery and Columbus Railroad, with its tributaries and connections, is one of the main and vital arteries of the rebel Confederacy, and the only undisturbed line of communication between Richmond, Savannah, and Charleston with the lower Mississippi regions and the Gulf States, and it seems beyond a doubt that the destruction of such an important railroad line at seven different pints, as within contemplated, with the destruction of numerous engines, valuable rolling-stock, and all other rebel property above alluded to, would certainly be a stunning blow upon the hydra of this wicked rebellion. I therefore most respectfully request the commanding general's sanction to make the raid, and his orders for the use of a cavalry force of 2,000 for the time of the one month only. At present I have but one company of cavalry mounted, Company M, Fourteenth New York Cavalry, numbering 80 men and 59 horses. The Florida cavalry, already six companies strong, have no arms and no horses. The men all entered my lines from rebeldom and enlisted in the U. S. Army with the fervent desire to revenge under the Union flag all the wrongs inflicted upon them and their families by the rebels. They are all good horsemen, all good marksmen, and perfectly familiar with the country and people throughout Florida, Alabama, and Georgia. Thus their services in the field, if well mounted and armed, would prove more efficient here than of any veteran cavalry regiment. I beg, therefore, to inclose duplicate of requisitions already forwarded for arms and horses, respectfully requesting the commanding general's approval and orders, and I confidently hope that the 500 Florida men when mounted will each, in les than a month, bring an additional horse from rebeldom into their camp.

For the present I am restricted to my small infantry force, ad although without proper land and water transportation, I will make an infantry advance in a few days up to Perdido with the view of doing considerable harm to the rebels.

Very respectfully, major, your obedient servant,

ASBOTH,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.