HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES,
La Fourche District, February 7, 1864.

Respectfully forwarded to department headquarters, and particular notice is called to so much as alludes to smuggling between Plaquemine and Butte a la Rose. This same information has been received several times before and forwarded to department headquarters.

EDWARD MOLINEUX,

Colonel, Commanding.

FEBRUARY 4-8, 1864.-Expedition from Helena up White River, Ark.

Report of Captain Charles O'Connell, Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry.

HELENA, ARK., February 7, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to submit the following report of scout up White River: I embarked on steam Cheer February 4, 1864, at 8.50 a. m., in command of 100 men Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry, 40 Third Arkansas, African Descent, Captain Robinson, and 7 men, with one piece of artillery, Lieutenant Hadlock. Left Helena 9 a. m., proceeded toward Friar's Point, destroyed one flat-boat; arrived at Friar's Point 11 a. m.,; found four cotton-boats there. The gun-boat had been ordered to Memphis.

In your dispatch to Captain Bron, of gun-boat, you wanted the steamer White ordered to Helena. I took discretionary power to order all of them to report to your headquarters, as I thought that they could easily captured by the rebels, as they had no gun-boat to protect them. I then proceeded on; arrived Island 63 at 12 m., delivered dispatched; passed gun-boat Eastport at Island 65, the steamer Rike alongside; arrived at Island 66 at 2.20 p. m. The steamer Emerald with troops stopped to wood; had no dispatch for the officer commanding island; arrived at mouth of White River 6 p. m., reported to Captain Prichett, delivered dispatch, disembarked cavalry, and remained at the mouth of White River until morning, as it was not safe to run up at night.

February 5, embarked and moved up White River at 8.30 a. m., no convoy going up; stopped at 12 m. on west side; took three cords wood; arrived at the mouth of Big Creek, 3 miles below Indian Bay, at 5.30 p. m.,; distance down Mississippi, 95 miles; White, 74 miles; disembarked cavalry to feed and water; took two cords wood. I got information that Mayo's and Davis' companies had gone to General McRae's headquarters; embarked and proceeded up Indian Bay at 12.30 a. m., arrived at Indiana Bay Landing 2.30 a. m.; disembarked and left Captain Robinson, Third Arkansas, African Descent,in command of the boat, with orders to remain twenty-four hours at the landing; then, if he did road; arrived at Boyce's, 8.30, February 6, 1864; got positive information that Mayo's and Davis' companies had gone to McRae's headquarters, to organize into a battalion to return his about ten days. Fed hourses and breakfasted at Boyce's; examined his papers and letters. He informed me that he had one revolver, and had fifteen bales of cotton up star is hid from the rebels. They had been encamped on his place. I took his revolver, but did not arrest him, as I could not get information that he had been giving aid to the rebels. They took it. He is coming to Helena to report in a few days.

While there got information that Casteel's company was encamped 3 1\2 miles from Boyce's. I started immediately for his camp, got within one-half mile of it. Met a negro that had just returned from the picket, informing them that we were in the country. I arrested him and made him pilot me to the camp. I found their pickets about 10 rods from their camp, on the opposite side of a cypress swamp; could see their men, about 18, in line, mounted. We fired at the picket, and then charged for them. We could only go by files through the swamp, and in the path the water and mud was 4 feet deep. As soon as we fired the company rank back over the hill, and as soon as the advance got over the swamp they scattered in all directions. The woods were very thick and very miry. I ordered my men to charge as foragers after them; followed them about 2 miles, scattering them in all directions. I captured 2 prisoners, 4 horses, shot 1 horse, 6 guns, and all their camp and garrison equipage. They had plenty of meat, salt, meal, and corn. I burned and destroyed one crib of corn (500 bushels) and all the other store sand equipage. My horses were very tired and nearly given out. After the charge I started toward Big Creek. The roads were very bad, and the creek was swimming. The horses were not fit to swim, and no prospects of getting any more prisoners, I returned to the boat after resting awhile; arrived at the boat at 6 p. m., embarked and proceeded to mouth of Big Creek; found gun-boat with convoy there bound down; staid there till daylight February 7, then proceeded to mouth of White River; arrived there at 12 m., stopped half an hour, then moved up the Mississippi River for Helena; landed at wood-yard, took five cords of wood; arrived at Helena, Ark., 3 a. m., February 8, 1864.

I succeeded in capturing 7 prisoners, 16 horses, 3 mules, 6 Colt revolvers, 12 guns destroyed. The following are the names, rank, and regiment: Alexander Newman, Casteel's company, Dobbin's regiment; W. P. Erley, Casteel's company, Dobbin's regiment; James South, Twentieth Arkansas Regiment; Nathan Clement, Hawthorn's regiment; John M. Barry, Texas Legion; J. F. Westbrook, taken with Texas Legion soldier in arms; John Darr, Elliott's battalion of cavalry, He was captured, dressed in our U. S. uniform. He says his company is at Cotton Plant, 50 in number, all dressed with U. S. uniform with red star on left breast. They have been detached to this side of the Mississippi River, and crossed about thirty days ago.

When I returned to mouth of White River Captain Prichett, U. S. Army gun-boat, turned over 1 prisoner to be delivered to you. He says he is a rebel courier, and he has evidence against him that he carries news of boats coming for the guerrillas to come and shoot at them. His name is Dawson Rouse.

There are about fifty bales of cotton in Indian Bay settlement, but the cypress slough was so muddy I could [not get] it out at present. At the landing on Indian Bay there are 5,000 bushels of corn, and through the settlement within 5 miles of the landing there are about 25,000 bushels of corn.

Our troops have never been in the settlement but once before, and that was a year ago last September. The country is well supplied to feed guerrillas, as nearly all are strong secesh. I recruited 6 good soldiers for the battery of African descent. I took some meat for the command, but they would not take Uncle Sam's receipt, and I guess the boys got some secesh chickens that had not taken the oath to the United States.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

CHAS. O'CONNELL,

Captain Company G, 15th Illinois Cavalry, Commanding Scout.

Captain T. C. MEATYARD,

Assistant Adjutant-General.