Numbers 9. Report of Colonel George B. Hoge, One hundred and thirteenth Illinois Infantry, commanding Second Brigade.

HDQRS. SECOND BRIGADE, DISTRICT OF MEMPHIS,
Memphis, Tenn., June 14, 1864.

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to submit the following report of the part taken by the Second Brigade, under my command, in the late expedition into Northern Mississippi, which was conducted by Brigadier- General Sturgis:

In accordance with Special Orders,, Numbers 38, paragraph 19, headquarters District of WEST Tennessee, dated May 31, 1864, I reported my command at 2 p. m. of the next day at the depot of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad, prepared for embarkation. Having reported at the appointed time and place with my command, two additional regiments of infantry and one battery of light artillery were assigned to men, and the Second Brigade consisted then and throughout the expedition of the Eighty- first, Ninety- fifth, One hundred and eighth, One hundred and thirteenth, and One hundred an twentieth Regiments of Illinois Infantry, and Company B, Second Regiment Illinois Artillery, commanded by Captain F. H. Chapman.

At 6. 30 p. m. of Wednesday, 1st instant, the entire command had embarked on rail cars, and the train immediately moved away from the depot, and at 9 p. m. arrived at a point about half way between Collierville and La Fayette, Tenn., where the command disembarked an bivouacked for the night, near the railroad track, in the woods.

Reveille was sounded at 4. 30 o'clock on the ensuing morning, Thursday, the 2d, and the brigade marched at 6 o'clock, by land, toward La Fayette, where, about 11 a. m., the First and THIRD Brigades were found encamped. I passed on beyond La Fayette one mile and went into camp.

On the following morning, Friday, the 3d, the entire column of infantry was in motion at 3. 30 a. m., the Second Brigade having position in the center. Arrived at night at Lamar, Miss., a small station on the MISSISSIPPI Central Railroad, and halted on a high and commanding position near the same. About 11 a. m. a heavy and continuous rain set in, which only ceased late in the morning of Saturday, the 4th. The command resumed the march at 11 a. m., the Second Brigade in front, and marching toward Salem. The day was fine, the roads improving, and the troops in good spirits. At 5 p. m. the column arrived at Robinson's plantation (about half way to Salem), and bivouacked in fine location near the same.

Sunday, the 5th the march was resumed toward Salem at 6 a. m., and continued until noon, when the command halted for the day about a mile beyond Salem. The weather was clear and fine, but very warm. About 4 a. m. of Monday, the 6th, the column was again in motion, the Second Brigade in the rear, and the One hundred and thirteenth Regiment Illinois Infantry in charge of the DIVISION supply and ammunition train. When about ten miles from Salem, the train was fired upon by a small party, who inflicted no injuries whatever. A severe rain, with a good deal of thunder and lightning, prevailed about three hours during the day, which so impaired the roads as seriously to delay the troops and train. The weather soon after changed for the better, and at night the column halted at a point fourteen miles southeast of Salem, on the Ripley road, and nine miles distant from Ripley. The march was resumed toward Ripley at 10 o'clock, through a hilly thickly- wooded, and thinly- settled country. Forage became scarce, and all the stock suffered. At 4 p. m. the command arrived within four miles of Ripley, and the Second and THIRD Brigades halted on the plantation of Mr. Crowder, while the First Brigade pushed forward to join Grierson's cavalry at Ripley. The weather was warm and sultry, but there was no rain.

About 4 o'clock on the morning of the 8th I resumed march and passed through and about two miles beyond Ripley and halted for two hours, when I was ordered to return, and about a mile back took the road leading to Baldwyn, on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad. The column halted on this road about four miles from Ripley.

At 10 a. m. of the 9th march was resumed, my command having the center, and continued for twelve miles on the Ripley and Baldwyn road, where we were halted on a fine high ridge and bivouacked for the night.

The column moved at 10 o'clock of the 10th instant, my command in front. Much delay was occasioned by bad roads, but by special effort the artillery and wagon train was kept closed up on the marching column. About 1 p. m. I received an order from Colonel McMillen to move forward instantly, as General Grierson was fighting and hotly pressed. I move at once. Shortly after Colonel McMillen sent me word that he would move forward with his escort at such a gait as he thought the infantry could march, but if I found that it was too much for them to send him word. I kept up the gait for about two miles and a half, when it was reported to me that five men had been sun- struck in the advance regiment of the brigade, the One hundred and thirteenth Illinois Infantry. I immediately sent Captain Woodruff forward to Colonel McMillen to say that it was impossible to keep up that rapid gait. I than halted for five minutes at a small stream for the men to fill their canteens, and then moved forward at a more moderate gait. Shortly afterward I received a peremptory order from Colonel McMillen to move forward as rapidly as possible, and the enemy were gaining ground, and the only thing that would save us was the infantry. . . . . I then increased the gait of the command, and kept up a quick march till within about three- quarters of a mile of the line of battle, when I received an order from Colonel McMillen in person to move forward at a double- quick, which was done and kept up until I came to the line of battle, when I placed the One hundred and thirteenth Illinois Infantry with its left resting on the road crossing the Ripley and Baldwyn road; the One hundred and twentieth Illinois Infantry with its left resting on the right of the One hundred and eighth, the Eighty- first Illinois Infantry with its left resting on the right of the Ninety- fifth, where a cavalry regiment rested on the right often Eighty- first, and completed the line across to the Baldwyn road. Battery B, Second Illinois Artillery, Captain Chapman, four guns, was placed at the cross- roads, where they fired 5 and 3 second shell. Colonel McMillen ordered one gun to be run down the Baldwyn road about 400 yards, and being hotly pressed by the enemy, two of the horses being killed, the piece fell into the enemy's hands along with two caissons. About this time the first line of battle gave way, but was reformed on the road, which we contested for some time, till our left flank was turned, when the command fell back in a hurried and disordered manner. This was kept up all night. The battery lost its three other guns and remaining caissons at the Hatchie Swamp, which was impossible to cross. The guns were all spiked before abandoning them, and the horses saved.

The last of the infantry reached Ripley about 7 a. m. Saturday, the 11th instant, closely pursued by the enemy, when my command was at once organized, closely pursued by the enemy, when my command was at once organized, and left Ripley in good order, following the First Brigade about 7. 30 a. m., the enemy following close on our rear. At a distance of about three miles northwest of Ripley the enemy's cavalry flanked the infantry which were marching in the rear of the cavalry, except one regiment of cavalry which was acting as a rear guard. My command, such as had guns, formed for defense with fixed bayonets, but many of them wee captured, owing to their exhausted condition and lack of ammunition; many to escape capture and to hasten their retreat toward the main column, abandoned their guns and cartridge- boxes. The retreat was continued by a route lying four miles to the right o Salem and seven miles to the left of La Grange toward Moscow, Tenn., on the Spring Hill road, continuing our retreat during the whole of Saturday night, and arriving at La Fayette, Tenn., at 4 a. m. of Sunday, the 12th instant, where the last firing of the enemy took place on our and the roads being very muddy and the men being without provisions, and keeping up with the cavalry reduced them to an exceedingly exhausted condition, and many fell unavoidably into the hands of the enemy.

The command reached Collierville, Tenn., about 10 a. m. of Sunday, and bivouacked there until the arrival of trains from Memphis, when they were transported to this city on board the cars.

The following figures show the original strength of the brigade and the number of killed, wounded, and missing, as compiled from reports made to this date, midday of the 14th instant. Stragglers and escaped prisoners are arriving within our lines in small numbers daily.

The number of guns brought in by the entire command is 267.

 81st	 95th	 108

 Illinois	 Illinois	 Illino

 Infantry. 	 Infantry. 	 is

 	 	 Infant

 	 	 ry.



Original strength of brigade:



Field officers	 2	 1	 1



Staff and line officers	 18	 18	 16



Enlisted men	 374	 342	 128



Killed:



Field officers	 . . . 	 1	 . . .



Staff and line officers	 . . . 	 1	 1



Enlisted men	 8	 12	 1



Wounded, present and absent:



Staff and line officers	 2	 5	 1



Enlisted men	 16	 22	 7



Missing:



Field offices	 . . . 	 . . . 	 . . .



Staff and line officers	 18	 2	 . . .



Enlisted men	 165	 73	 27

 113	 120	 2nd	 Total

 Illinoi	 Illinois	 Illin

 s	 Infantry. 	 ois

 Infantr	 	 Artil

 y. 	 	 lery,

 	 	 Compa

 	 	 ny B.



Original strength of

brigade:



Field officers	 1	 2	 . . . 	 7



Staff and line officers	 12	 27	 3	 94



Enlisted men	 293	 362	 74	 1,573



Killed:



Field officers	 . . . 	 1	 . . . 	 2



Staff and line officers	 1	 . . . 	 . . . 	 3



Enlisted men	 4	 8	 1	 34



Wounded, present and

absent:



Staff and line officers	 . . . 	 1	 1	 10



Enlisted men	 32	 20	 2	 99



Missing:



Field offices	 . . . 	 1	 . . . 	 1



Staff and line officers	 6	 20	 . . . 	 46



Enlisted men	 106	 182	 2	 555

In conclusion, I would say that officers and men of the entire command acted in the most gallant manner. I think especial notice is due to the officers and men of the One hundred and twentieth Illinois Infantry, it being the first time they have been under fire.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

I am, lieutenant, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEO. B. HOGE

Colonel, Commanding.

Lieutenant O. H. ABEL,

Acting Assistant Adjutant- General, Infantry DIVISION.