FEBRUARY 11, 1864.-Descent upon Lamar, Tex.

Report of Captain E. P. Upton, Local Defense Company of Refugio County.

HDQRS. LOCAL DEFENSE COMPANY OR REFUGIO CO.,
Lamar, February 13, 1864.

SIR: In my communication of the 11th instant, by special courier, I informed you of the landing of the enemy at this place in considerable force. Early on the morning of the 11th the enemy landed 75 men under 3 officers-a captain and 2 lieutenants (Iowa troops). They took down the large warehouse here, and removed all they could carry of it on board the large scow they brought with them. The men were then turned loose, as it seems, for indiscriminate plunder. They entered almost all the houses and took whatever they desired, defenseless families suffering the most. Just before dark the enemy halted out into the bay and anchored. Early in the morning of the 12th, they returned toward the shore in their barges and boarded the schooner Lizzie Bacon, which lies sunk near the beach. They pumped her out, and after an ineffectual attempt to get her out they abandoned her, proceeded to their large scow, set sail, and at sundown of the 12th were out of sight. They stood toward the pass of Arkansas. By design I directed J. B. Wells, esq., a member of my company and resident of Lamar, to enact the quiet citizen and meet the enemy upon their landing. He derived from the 3 officers before mentioned the following: They told him that all of Corpus Christi had come over to them; that they had upon Mustang Island a Texas regiment enlisted in Corpus Christi and elsewhere on the coast, and that Banks had 25,000 troops with which he intended taking Galveston, but said that "our heaviest force, and upon which we mainly depend, is coming by way or Red River-a force so large that Texas will be overrun in less than three months hence."

During the invasion of the enemy on the 11th, a small boat was seen coming from Saint Mary's. To my astonishment she stood on and landed on the beach just above the enemy, when the 2 men in run leaped ashore and started to run across the prairie. They wee pursued, fired at several times, and captured without injury. Mr. Wells informed me they were a lieutenant of Captain Hobby's company, Colonel Hobby's regiment, and one T. Beran, whom the lieutenant had employed at Saint Mary's to bring him to Lamar. The lieutenant is from Bee County; name unknown. My scouts from Saint Joseph's inform me as follows: Every building of any size on Saint Joseph's has been removed to Mustang, where a city seems to be rising. The fortifications are all on Mustang. The enemy only occasionally cross to Saint Joseph's in large parties to hunt cattle, &c., which have become very wild from constant shooting among them and want of water. Their communication with Saluria aery is now by water. On Mustang is now a large force of cavalry, &c. From Balck Jack Reef, Saint Mary's, Carlos Head, and Nine-Mile Point (Live Oak) all is quiet.

Among the recent invaders were several citizens of Corpus Christi; one Anderson (captain) and his son were the most conspicuous. Certain it is that every movement here was well know to the enemy. I have determined in consequence to stop all communication with Corpus until ordered otherwise, as well as the islands.

* * * * * * *

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

E. P. UPTON,

Captain, Commanding Local Defense Co., Refugio County.

Colonel JAMES DUFF,

Commanding Second Brigadier, First Div., Victoria, Tex.