[Inclosure No. 2.] EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, Denver, November 10, 1863.

Honorable W. P. DOLE,

Commissioner Indian Affairs:

SIR: I have the honor to report the following statement of a Mr. North on the subject of Indian hostilities, made to me this day, viz:

STATEMENT.

Having recovered an Arapaho prisoner, a squaw, from the Utes, I obtained the confidence of the Indians completely. I have lived with them from a boy, and my wife is an Arapaho. In honor of my exploit in recovering the prisoner the Indians recently gave me a "big medicine dance" about 55 miles below Fort Lyon, on the Arkansas River, at which the leading chiefs and warriors of several of the tribes of the plains met. The Comanches, Apaches, Kiowas, the northern band of Arapahoes, and all of the Cheyennes, with the Sioux, have pledged one another to go to war with the whites as soon as they can procure ammunition in the spring. I heard them discuss the matter often and the few of them who opposed it were forced to be quiet and were really in danger of the loss of their lives.

I saw the principal chiefs pledge to each other that they would shake hands and be friendly with the whites until they procured ammunition and guns, so as to be ready when they strike. Plundering to get means has already commenced, and the plan is to commence the war at several points in the sparse settlements early in the spring. They wanted me to join them in the war, saying that they would take a great many white women and children prisoners, and get a heap of property, blankets, &c. But while I am connected with them by marriage and live with them I am yet a whiter man, and which to avoid bloodshed. There are a great many Mexicans with the Comanche and Apache Indians, all of whom urge on the war, promising to help the Indians themselves, and that a great many more Mexicans would come up from New Mexico for the purpose in the spring.

This is substantially his statement, which he did not sign, as he cannot write. He requested that his name should not be known, so as to get news of his giving this information to the Indians, as his life would be the penalty. He also promised to keep me advised if he learned anything further on the subject. I am fully satisfied with the truthfulness of his statement, and have deemed it prudent to make every arrangement to prevent was and to ferret out any step in progress of this foul conspiracy among these poor, degraded wretches.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN EVANS,

Governor Colo. Ter. and ex officio Supt. Indian Affairs.

MEMORANDA.

I received letters from Major S. G. Colley, U. S. Indian agent for the Upper Arkansas, and from Major Loree, U. S. Indian agent for the Upper Platte Agency, as well as other corroboration of these statements, which were also sent forward with them.

JOHN EVANS,

Governor of Colorado Territory.