HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF COLORADO,
Denver, Colo. Ter., May 29, 1864

Major E. W. WYNKOOP,

Fort Lyon, Colo. Ter.:

MAJOR: Yours 26th instant is received and its contents noted, and the colonel commanding directs me to state that he cannot believe yet that Lieutenant Eayre with his command is cut to pieces. Your letter only indicates surely that you had information from Larned too the 18th instant. If that given by Indian Agent Colley was later you failed to state it, and I think likely the 18th was your latest the from Larned. If so, the case is very hopeful, as that would come up to the date at which he was expected to be there. I shall not feel very uneasy until I find that he has not arrived there on the 25th. Again, I cannot see how it would be possible for his entire command, to be cut off; and yet, again, I think it impossible for the Indians to be in such force as to whip him with the arms and men he had, unless he first allowed his command to lie down and go to sleep without any sentinels out, which I think impossible under the instructions I gave him; but, after all, I am somewhat fearful for his safety.

Companies A and E are en route for your post. B, C, and G are under marching orders and will leave in a day or two. In view of this fact, and because Company D will reach you before Company L's transportation can reach there, it being no in Denver for rations, I think best not to move L at present.

You will send the two sections of the battery right on to Larned, as they are to receive their armament at that post. If there is danger on the route you will have to outfit them the best you can. I several weeks since called for a report from your acting assistant quartermaster and acting commissary of subsistence, also about ordnance stores. You will see that a report of what is on hand is made out and forwarded at once; also whether any stores and what kind they are. Keep me fully and frequently posted. Send at least one messenger each week-say, three days after coach passes. Direct your messenger to deliver the message to relays at Bent's Fort, Camp Fillmore, and Colorado City, and to return with first dispatches going in your direction.

I am, sir, with much respect, your obedient servant,

J. S. MAYNARD,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.