EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,

Carson City, September 15, 1862.

Brigadier-General WRIGHT, U. S. Army,

Commanding Pacific Department:

SIR: I have seen an order issued from the Department at Washington in relation to the treatment of prisoners who speak disrespectfully of the Government. I see likewise that you are about to appoint a military commission to act upon and decide the several cases arising in this department. How are we to bring such cases before said commission? Is there power; if so, where does it exist, to transport them across the mountains? Can we have a commission appointed for this Territory? Treason is very openly spoken here now since Colonel Connor's proclamation. The trouble lies here in the fact that there is only one company stationend at the fort, and they can raise a force any day more than sufficient to overpower them. To obviate this difficulty I can furnish you with two or three companies, or have them at hand subject to call if you can furnish them with arms. The arms that we had are now pretty much distributed to such companies as have and are now forming. I have taken pains to so distributue these companies as to secure the greatest efficiency in case of trouble. I am quite apprehensive that there is a band of guerrillas forming in this Territory to burn, rob, and plunder all of the loyal citizens they can reach. They formed under the pretense of going east to join the rebel army, and received material aid from the rebel sympathizers here to help them across. They now think they are lurking about the country, and threaten to destroy it. I am quite certain that these Indian difficulties on the plains are brought about by the interference of the secessionists. I am of the opinion that there will be a necessity for stationing troops from the Humboldt to Ruby Valley. There has been some bloody work there within a few days.

I think a portion of the command destined for Salt Lake should halt in the neighborhood of Gravelly Ford until the emigration has passed. The depredations appear to be committed north of the line of marnnor's command; the troops keep the mail road and the emigration north. It seems too bad that so many should be killed so near their journey's end. You will know much better than I do what to do. I will inclose a copy of a letter from my Indian agent from Humbmoldt, showing the state of things there, adn I have to-day heard of much more bloody butchery. If I can procure arms I can put a thousand good men in a condition to render good and efficient aid in any emergency. Can I do it? I see a troublesome winter before us and am anxious to be prepared for it. How to be prepared and what to do are the points upon which I desire your counsel and advice. I hear the mutterings and desire to prepare for the storm. At the bottom of all these troubles are the cursed rebels. If we could send them all to Alcatraz the troubles would end. The sooner the work is commenced and consummated the better. If we could have those in our midst removed the exciting cause would be gone. If you will advise me in relation to, first, what is the best to be done with the traitors and how it is to be done; second, what can be done with the Indian troubles; third, in relation to arms, &c., I will be much obliged to you.

I have the honor to be, your humble servant,

JAMES W. NYE,

Governor of Nevade Territory.