HEADQUARTERS CAMP MIMBRES,
March 7, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to inform the colonel commanding that on the morning of the 3rd instant Juan Arroyas (my Mexican guide and scout)reported to me that some Indians had just crossed the road with some cattle about 6 miles from here, going southward. I thought best to look after them a little, so I sent Lieutenant Burnkett and 14 enlisted men mounted on wagon mules to give chase. Lieutenant Burkett followed them to the Florida Mountains, a distance of about 50 miles, but could not overtake them. He reports that a very large body of Indians has been encamped there for some time past, and appeared to have left about three or four days ago; that they have had a considerable amount of stock; that stock has been driven to that place from every direction, but has all been driven away in the direction of Lake Guzman. The Indians are very plenty around here nowadays,and if you will give me affair show I will catch some more of them, but as it is, I have hardly troops enough to guard my here dad keep them off it. My men come on guard duty every third day and on police once between guards, when all are here; when part are gone on a scout we all have to stand guard. I have had to discharge the duties of sergeant of the guard myself in order to keep the non-commissioned officer from remaining on duty forty-eight hours without being relieved. My orderly sergeant is detailed regularly when there is a detachment out. My standing instructions are to "strike at them whenever I can." but how can I do anything with so small a garrison and a Government here to look out for? But if Company I comes along in few days I think of halting them a few days and go after those fellows, unless I shall receive orders to the contrary. They are reported as being in such numbers that I do not feel safe with less than 50 men. I should like very much to know your pleasure in regard to this matter, as it could very probably be obtained in time. I believe I could catch a good number of them, and probably some stock.

I am, captain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAMES H. WHITLOCK,

Captain, Fifth Infantry, California Vols., Commanding.

Captain C. A. SMITH,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Hart's Mills, Tex.