Captain J. E. CURTISS,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 10. Report of Brigadier General Alexander Hays, U. S. Army, commanding Third Division.

HDQRS. THIRD DIVISION, SECOND ARMY CORPS,
February 13, 1864.

COLONEL: In compliance with instructions, I have the honor to report the operations of the division which I had the honor to command on the 6th of 7th instant:

In obedience to circular, headquarters Second Army Corps, my division moved from cantonment and proceeded to Morton's Ford, on the Rapidan. Arriving in view of the river, and the enemy giving no evidence of opposition, it was deemed advisable to test his position and strength. Under instructions from the general commanding the corps, I directed Brigadier General J. T. Owen, commanding the Third Brigade, to select and throw forward as skirmishers 300 of the best veteran troops of his command. A rapid dash brought them across the Rapidan, although the river was cold and deep. The ford was defended by rifle-pits and unfinished abatis. It was, however, carried without the loss of a man and the capture of 30 of the rebels. Advancing to the ridge beyond, everything was carried for three quarters of a mile to a position giving us a full view of the enemy's camps and intrenchments. Deeming it necessary to support my advance, I applied for and was re-enforced with the remaining force of my division. The position was held during the remainder of the day's light, but as night closed upon us we were spiritedly attacked by the rebels on the right and left flanks. Their attacks were gallantly and successfully repulsed, and at 6 p. m. quiet was restored with our occupation of our entire position.

I regret to forward such a long list of casualties, but it is solely attributable to the faltering of two regiments of conscripts or substitutes comprising the Fourteenth Connecticut and Thirty-ninth New York Volunteers. If supported by our whole corps I have not the least doubt that we would have been enabled to capture the whole force of the rebels, including camps and artillery, with less loss than we have suffered. I would respectfully refer you to the accompanying reports of subordinate commanders, and can only commend them to the general commanding the army and the War Department, awaiting an opportunity to set forth their particular claims. I inclose a list* of killed, wounded, and missing. None of our dead or wounded were left upon the field.

From reliable information obtained I am satisfied a large rebel force concentrated at Morton's Ford to oppose us on the succeeding day. We recrossed the Rapidan on the 6th and returned to our present camps on the 7th instant.

I have neglectfully failed to call especial attention and notice to the conduct of the Seventh Regiment West Virginia Volunteers, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel J. H. Lockwood, of the First Brigade, distinguished always among the first and foremost in battle. They, with their gallant leader, had re-enlisted for three years. The order for their return to their homes had been received and published. With a resolve to assist their old comrades in another day's trial they marched with us and returned, bearing with them to their homes 1 commissioned officer and 10 enlisted men wounded. I ask recognition of my staff, First Lieutenant J. S. Sullivan, Fourteenth Indiana Volunteers, acting aide-de-camp and acting assistant adjutant-general, whose horse was severely wounded; Second Lieutenant David Shields, Sixty-third Pennsylvania Volunteers, aide-de-camp, severely wounded twice; Captain J. C. Lynch, One hundred and sixth Pennsylvania Volunteers, whose hat was blown from his head; Lieutenant W. E. Potter, acting judge-advocate, and Lieutenant John M. Fogg, acting ordnance officer, rendered efficient aid.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

ALEX. HAYS,

Brigadier-General of Volunteers, Commanding Division.