FORT RUBY, NEV. TER., December 2, 1862.

LIEUTENANT; I have the honor to report that on the afternoon of the 21st ultimo one of the herders belonging to this post, who was some thirty-five miles down the valley, came in and reported that 10 horses, 1 mule, and 1 head of beef had been stolen by the Indians the night before. I immediately telegraphed the fact to you. On the morning of the 22nd I started with a party, consisting of Captain Potts and forty-two men of Company F, Third Infantry California Volunteers, with six days' rations, for the purpose of recovering the stock and punishing the guilty parties. We left this post at 10 on the morning of the 22d, and after marching thirty miles encamped at 9 p. m. On the morning of the 23rd we started at sunrise, and after marching thirty miles over a rough, swampy road, where we had to make bridges, &c., for our wagon, we encamped for the night about sudown. On the morning of the 24th, finding it impossible to proceed farther with the wagon, Captain Potts and myself, withthree men (mounted), went ahead, leaving the command under Sergeant Buxton to folow on as fast as possible, leaving eight men as a guard to the wagon. I made a reconnaissance of the whole valley north to the mountains and finding no pass through the mountains, nor signs of either stock or Indians returned and met the command about twenty-five miles from our morning camp. The men suffering very much from fatigue and cold, and our rations being nearly exhausted, I deemed it advisable to return to the fort, where we arrived on the afternoon of the 27th. From my personal observations I am satisfied that there are no Indians in this valey north of this fort, and those that stole the stock came from Thousand Spring Valley, or that vicinity, probably belonging to the Bannock tribe. In conclusion, I would say that the men who were with me have done nobly, having marched a distance of 170 miles in less than five days (myself and Captain Potts and the three men with us some thirty miles farther), with weather intensely cold, and they thinly clad, without a murmur. I must say I am proud of them.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

P. A. GALLAGHER,

Major Third Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding post.

Lieutenant THOMAS S. HARRIS,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, District of Utah.