HDQRS. NORTHERN DIVISION, HUMBOLDT MIL. DIST.,
Fort Gaston, September 5, 1862.

Lieutenant SWASEY,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Humboldt Mil. Dist., Fort Humboldt:

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to state to the colonel commanding that recent information received from Hoopa Indians makes it probable that an armed band of the Redwoods is now in the vicinity of the Three Creeks, said to number twenty-five or thirty bucks, their squaws being with them. It is thought this is the remnant of the band recently attacked by the party from Arcata, and that they have brought their wounded with them. As it is probable they will remain for some days in that section of the country, and it is desirable to close as far as possible the avenues of escape, I have thought it the most prudent course to delay advancing directly upon the supposed locality until the detachments dispatches to intercept the retreat should have time to reach their proper positions. I inclose for the information of the colonel commanding a copy of the order issued. In pursuance of this order Lieutenant Noyes left this post this morning with the number of men of Company F requisite to organize the detachment which is to move to-morrow from Fort Anderson to the head of Redwood Creek. For the reasons which I had recently the honor to stating to the colonel commanding, I have not employed Indian guides upon this scout, and besides, for a concerted movement of this kind, white guides can more easily comprehend and assist the operation. I have not included Captain Flynn's command in this movement, because it would delay it too much to await his receipt of the order, but if the colonel commanding should think proper to direct him to scout independently up to and in the vicinity of the head of Pilot Creek, and which I understand is but one day's march from Fort Baker, it might assist in the success of the expedition. As I shall myself accompany the detachment that moves directly against the Indians, I shall leave Captain Douglas in command of this post during my absence.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAS. N. OLNEY,

Lieutenant-Colonel Second Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding