[Inclosure D.] HEADQUARTERS COLUMN FROM CALIFORNIA, CAMP ON THE RIO GRANDE, ARIZ. TER., Three and a half Mile above Fort Thorn, August 8, 1862.

Brigadier General E. R. S. CANBY,

Commanding Department of New Mexico, santa Fe, N. Mex.:

GENERAL: Before arriving at Cooke's Wells I learned that there was not any water to speak of between that point and El Picacho, on the Rio Grande, fifty-five miles from Cooke's Wells and six miles above Mesilla. The Rio Grande had divided in the great flood and broken across the country so as to leave the town of Mesilla on an island difficult of access from the west, and that the facilities for grazing in the neighborhood of Mesilla were bad. This information decided me to strike the Rio Grande at or near Fort Thorn, a distance of not less than thirty-five miles nor more than forty from Cooke's Wells, but destitute of water the whole way. I arrived here last evening with two companies of cavalry and one if infantry, having left Cooke's Wells at 8 a. m. The other detachments - West's, gWillis', and Rigg's, a day apart - will reach this point, commencing with West's, to-morrow evening. I leave to-day for the San Diego Crossing, at the foot of the Jordana, and I shall pass the Rio Grande at that point. I have this day written to Colonel Howe that of they have not already left Fort Craig to go up the river. The Colorado Volunteers can leave at once, agreeably with your Special Orders, Numbers 128, current series. I inlosefor your information a copy of a note to Colonel West, First California Volunter Infantry, in relation to sending some provisions to some destitute men, women, and children at the Pino Alto mines. If I have authority to occupy posts in the northwestern portion of Texas, i. e., Forts Bliss and Quitman, will you permit me to have my headquarters, say, at Hart's Mill, on the Rio Grande, some three miles above Fort Bliss?

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAMES H. CARLETON,

Brigadier-general, U. S. Army.

NOTE. - My command did not use tents in crossing the desert. I had a few (two to a company) whenI left Tuscon, but thirteen of these were left to shelter the garrison at Fort Bowie, Apache PAss, Chiricahua Mountains. I have sent to Fort Yuma to have all the tents at that post repaired and sent on as soon as possible. Should I need them, can you lend me some? I left Tuscon July 23; stopped one day at the Cienega de Sauz and four and a half at Ojo de la Vaca and arrived here on the 7th.

J. H. C.