UNION LEAGUE OF AMERICA,

OFFICE GRAND LECTURER OF STATE OF KANSAS,

Leavenworth, April 10, 1864.

Brigadier General C. B. FISK,

Saint Joseph, Mo.:

DEAR SIR: I learn this evening that you purpose personally to examine into the organization of the Paw Paw Militia in Parkville, Platte County, Mo., my old home. I wish you could make it convenient to have an interview with me at Leavenworth City as you pass down previous to your visit to Parkville. I can give you more reliable information concerning the state of affairs there than any other one man, and might give you some suggestions which you might find valuable, if had [an interview] before your visit, which would prove unavailable afterward. These suggestions would probably save you and the Government much in the settlement of this vexed question; yourself in personal exertion and the Government the expenditure of both blood and treasure.

I have studied the matter carefully from the beginning of the war, at which time I resided in Parkville myself, and since which time I have been sent to the county in command by General Hunter and took no mean part in inducing President Lincoln to remove General Schofield and appoint General Rosecrans, principally upon account of his actions in the every premisses in which you are now about to act, and you will excuse me if I venture to say that I consider the present question in Northwest Missouri to be at present the most important feature of the rebellion. More important a thousand fold than the capture of Richmond or the overthrow of the army there or in any of the Southern States.

The North is pretty well settled in an opinion, in perfect accordance with that of the Government, that in the Southern States the war must be carried on with the utmost vigor and severity, but in Missouri, especially in Northern Missouri, the question for solution is whether the President shall sustain and arm his friends who have been tried and proven, or those who profess to be his friends now, and who have proven that friendship heretofore by fighting against the Government and bushwhacking and robbing the undoubted Union men. There are many minor details which I dare not commit to paper which you ought to know before going down there, and I shall take great pleasure in communicating them to you at Leavenworth as you go down if you wish.

Please write or telegraph me immediately upon the receipt of this whether I shall see you or not, and oblige, very respectfully, yours,

EBENEZER N. O. CLOUGH.

P. S.-General Curtis is absent, or I would take this up to him and get him to forward it to you for me, with his recommendation that you see me before you go. I am in the city and not at the fort.

E. N. O. C.