HDQRS. DIST. OF MINN., DEPT. OF THE NORTHWEST,
saint Paul, Minn., January 25, 1864.

Major General JOHN POPE,

Milwaukee:

GENERAL: I have waited for the reports of the agents dispatched by me, under your authority, to open communication with the upper bands of Dakota or Sioux Indians, before indicating a programme of military operations for the coming spring and summer. I have had the honor to furnish you from time to time with a statement of the condition of the Indians so far as that could be ascertained. No report has yet been received from Father Andre, who left Pembine several weeks since to visit the distant camps with a view to present to those not implicated in the massacres of 1862 the terms upon which peace would be vouchsafed to them by the Government.

The arrival of Red River half-breeds at Fort Abercrombie from Devil's Lake and the upper Cheyenne River, wit the intelligence that the upper bands are encamped at points hundreds of miles apart, some within the British Possessions on the Assiniboine River, and most of the others on the James River, except two small camps of Sissetons at or near Devil's Lake, leads me to believe that the Red River half-breeds have succeeded in deterring them from submitting to the Government by representations that in such case they would be taken from their own country and placed upon an island in the ocean. It is for the interest of these half-breeds that non-intercourse between the Americans and the Sioux Indians should continue, as the trade with the latter is thereby secured to the British settlements exclusively. In fact, as I have already reported to you, the hostile Indians are directly aided and abetted by Her Majesty's subjects to so great an extent as to require the prompt interposition of the Government in insisting that a professedly friendly power shall not longer permit its soil to be a convenient refuge for these Ishmaelites of the prairies, where they can supply themselves with necessary articles, including munitions of war.

The remnant of the lower bands of murderers having been furnished with food and ammunition by the British authorities, as I have already informed you, it may be taken for granted that they will thereby be enabled to subsist themselves through the winter and their necessities will impel them to attempt new raids upon our settlements in the spring. Every precaution should be taken to guard these settlements against their insidious attacks in small parties, and the war be once more carried into the enemy's country as the most effectual protection to the frontier against any formidable demonstration by them. The most vigorous and effective means to pu a speedy end to this Indian war, namely, an offensive movement, will prove int he end to be vastly less expensive than the assumption of a merely defensive attitude, which would indefinitely prolong hostilities and be most calamitous in its effects upon the prosperity of Minnesota, Iowa, and Dakota Territory.

To meet the new aspect of affairs, and to prevent, if possible, another ruinous stampede of settlers from the border, I beg leave to present the following plan of operations for the ensuing season:

First, I propose that the posts from Sauk Center to the Iowa line, established last season entirely outside of the line of settlements, shall be garrisoned by detachments of the Second Regiment Minnesota Cavalry, leaving a part of one regiment of infantry to occupy Forts Ridgely, Ripley, and Abercrombie. There should not be less than two companies at either of these posts. The whole twelve companies of the regiment of cavalry will be required to secure the extensive line from Fairmont to Alexandria from hostile incursions, and to perform the necessary escort duty.

Secondly, an expedition, to consist of fourteen companies of infantry, three companies of cavalry, and two sections of mountain howitzers, should leave Fort Ridgely as soon as the great shall be sufficiently long to subsist the animals, to beat up the camps of the prairie Indians, whether they may be found on the upper Cheyenne, at Devil's Lake, or on the Missouri Coteau. I feel quite certain that hostilities will be indefinitely prolonged, unless the recent reverses experienced by these prairie warriors are followed up vigorously by the Government forces, until the Indians are made to feel that there is no safety for themselves of their families except in their unqualified submission. It would have been imprudent to hazard an advance of 600 miles into the hostile country last season with a less force than composed the expedition; but now that the savages have experienced successive federates in contending with disciplined troops, the number of companies I have specified may safely risk an encounter with any concentration of warriors north or east of the Missouri. The battalion under Major Hatch should be kept in position along the boundary line, to act in any emergency that may arise in that quarter.

To carry out this plan in will be necessary for you to procure the consent of the War Department to retain the three companies of Minnesota cavalry, now on their way to the State, who have re-enlisted into the service. Though reduced in numbers these companies would be worth many times their own force of raw cavalry, and in no position could they confer more signal benefit to the Government than in this military district as a part of the proposed expedition. No other increase of force would in my judgment be requisite, but I consider that less than the number indicated for offensive and defensive purposes would be insufficient. I assume as a fixed fact that you will direct a formidable movement of troops up the Missouri River, to chastise the Teton Sioux, so as to render safe the emigrant route leads me to the belief that these Tetons have sent tobacco to the Assinimboines, Blackfeet, Crows, and other tribes with whom they have hitherto waged war from time immemorial, inviting them to form a general combination against the Americans as a matter of self-preservation. Should this prove correct these allied tribes can bring into the field 8,000 or 9,000 warriors, and sooner or later these men must be met and conquered.

I need not mention to one whose knowledge and experience in Indian affairs are son accurate as your own that halt-way measures in dealing with the red man are not only inconclusive and pernicious in their results, but are always doubly expensive to the Government. The great distance to be traversed in operating against the upper bands is the most formidable obstacle to their speedy subjugation, but this must be overcome so far as it is possible.

I had progressed thus far with this dispatch when I had the honor to receive your instructions of 18th instant, fixing the general programme for the district commanded, respectively, by General Sully and myself during the coming season. In obedience to your directions I proceed in as brief a space as possible to give you my views as to the location of the military posts contemplated by you.

First. About 80 miles a little southwest from Fort Abercrombie, and somewhat more than half that distance northwest from Big Stone Lake, is Re Ipahan, or the head of the Coteau de Prairie, an abrupt termination of the dividing ridge about midway between the valleys of the Red River and Minnesota and the James River, about 600 feet above the surrounding plain, and well supplied with good water and timber. I regard it as the most commanding and eligible site for a military post in all that region. It can be reached and supplied with facility either from Fort Ridgely or Abercrombie. A strong force stationed there could readily operate toward the James or

Cheyenne Rivers, while it would entirely protect the approach to Lake Traverse, Big Stone Lake, and the Minnesota Valley. The general impression is that the overland route to Idaho will pass within or south of the head of the Coteau. I therefore respectfully and earnestly recommend that a post be established at the point specified instead of at Devil's Lake, which would be extremely difficult of access and of comparatively little importance, as the Indians seem for the past year to have abandoned that region in consequence of the northeastern extremity of Devil's Lake would have a good effect in breaking up the intercourse between the British half-breeds and the prairie bands of Sioux, but that position would be too remote from the Missouri River to be supplied from thence and must depend upon being furnished by way of Pembina and Saint Joseph.

I would also respectfully suggest that a post on the James River, on a west line from Pembina, would be untenable for the lack of timber. The main valley of the James, above the mouth of Snake River, is singularly destitute of wood. In fact, so far as my information extends, there is not a single point on that river, above the locality mentioned, where anything like a sufficiency of that indispensable article for a military station can be found. But on the Cheynne River timber is abundant, and a post might be located

a little north of a direct line west from Abercrombie, which would be within striking distance of the James River, and equally command the important valley of the Cheynnee, while it could be supplied with more facility and much less expense from Fort Abercrombie, or even from Fort Ridgely, than from the Missouri River. The Conteau of the Missouri is very much broken and is difficult to be traversed with loaded teams, and the farther north we proceed the more impracticable the country becomes. By occupying the points I have designated for military posts, all the essential conditions of protection to trains bound for the gold-bearing regions of Idaho would be fulfilled, while a complete check would be given to the advance of any large bodies of savages toward the settlements in Minnesota and Iowa by the valleys of the great streams, which are the usual avenues of approach from the upper prairies.

Second. I regard the establishment of a fort on the Missouri River, at or near the head of Burnt Boat Island, where the Indians were driven across that stream by my command in July last, as of great importance. The region surrounding it is the favorite hunting-ground of some of the powerful bands of the Yanktonnais Sioux, and there is a mutual descent to the river from each side, which makes it easy of access. It is by no means impossible that a further examination of the country will prove this to be the best crossing-place for overland expeditions. It has evidently been favorite passage-way of the Indians for generations. While I concur fully in the general features of the operations you propose, I beg leave respectfully to suggest that the new cavalry regiment will not be in condition to be effective for many months to come. The material is for the most part very inexperienced and raw, a small part only being composed of volunteers from the First Regiment. It will be impossible to mount them before spring, and while they will be of essential service in protecting the frontier as already mentioned, I trust that you will secure the three cavalry companies coming home from the South, for active employment as a part of the expeditionary force.

My experience of last season fully confirms me in the conviction that in very long-continued marches, where grain forage cannot be obtained, American horses cannot be relied on to keep pace with infantry, without becoming so poor and out of condition as to render them comparatively useless in the rapid pursuit of the enemy. I therefore respectfully repeat my already expressed opinion, that the column intended for active movements should be composed principally of infantry, and that the three companies of cavalry be confined to its march and their strength husbanded as much as may be, so that the horses can in action overtake the ponies of the Indians, which could not be done with our poor animals during the last campaign. In conclusion, I would respectfully state that as I have in this district but two regiments of infantry and one of cavalry, with one company of artillery, it will tax my resources to the utmost to carry into execution the contemplated plan of operations.

I do not include Hatch's battalion in my estimate, as I consider it indispensable that it should remain on our northern line under existing circumstances. Two companies at each of the three regular posts in this district will leave twenty-seven disposable companies, including the battery, for garrisoning the temporary stations along the extensive frontier, for establishing the two new posts, and for movements in the field. If you approve of my suggestions with regard to the retaining of three additional cavalry companies returning home on furlough from the South, I trust to be able to carry out your orders fully. I have just received important dispatches from Major Hatch and Father Andre, which I will have the honor to communicate to you in my next dispatch, and which may affect to some extent future operations.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

H. H. SIBLEY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.