HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
Ne Orleans, January 29, 1864.

Major-General HALLECK,

General-in-Chief:

GENERAL: No important change has occurred in this department since my last dispatch.

I shall be ready to co-operate with General Sherman and General Steele as soon as I receive definite information of the time when they will be ready to move. I can take possession of Alexandria at any time, but could not maintain the position without the support of the forces on the upper river. It is important that rive steamers should be sent down from Saint Louis, suitable for the navigation of Red River. I want ten or fifteen first-class and light-draught boats. Some months since your ordered steamers to be sent here, but very few reached New Orleans. They will be indispensable now.

Pending information and orders in regard to movements on Red River, but little change has occurred in the position of troops. I have sent officers to communicate with General Sherman, or General McPherson in his absence, and General Steele, but have yet no information from them. I have sent an officer to Saint Louis also, to obtain steamers, and shall be very glad if you will communicate with the quartermaster at that post, and direct him to aid me. The troops are generally re-enlisting. The furloughs granted upon re-enlistment will materially reduce my force, and I hope those sent from the North may replace those who obtain leave of absence. A company of the enemy's troops near Pensacola came into that post and surrendered themselves. No official report of the fact is received, but it is undoubtedly correct.

The election is progressing favorably. Anxiously waiting information and instructions as to operations on Red River, I have done nothing in Texas, except to provide for the security of the positions held. The armament at Fort Jackson will soon be completed. The interior works at Port Hudson are now nearly ready for the guns intended for their defense. The health of the troops is good.

I have the honor to be, with respect, your obedient servant,

N. P. BANKS,

Major-General, Commanding.