HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF ROLLA, MO.,
March 2, 1864.

Left Rolla on the 1st of February, 1864, under orders to report to Major Fischer, commanding post at Waynesville. Reported to that officer on the 2nd, and received orders the same day, and in company with 5 men, under command of Lieutenant Bates, of Company E, Fifth Regiment Missouri State Militia, marched north of Waynesville some 6 miles. Learned here that the guerrillas, whom we wee in search of, had gone in a southwest direction. We pursued them into Texas County, near the farm of one Lowe, on the Roubidoux. About sunrise on the second day after we left camp we ran into the camp of some 16 or 18 guerrillas, commanded by the notorious outlaw Frank Smith. We charged on the camp and routed them completely; killed 7 men and captured 7 horses, saddles, and bridles, together with a quantity of plunder of various kinds. We followed the trail of the flying thieves as long as we could, but they broke for the brush, and it was impossible to follow them mounted. We then scouted in a northeast direction, and on the 6th we arrived in camp at Waynesville, having lost on men or horses.

On the morning of the 7th we received orders from Major Fischer to go in search of some guerrillas who had fired into the stage between Waynesville and the Gasconade. Marched 4 miles on the Springfield road, and then turned northwest and went into Moccasin Bend, on the Gasconade. Found several old camps here, but apparently deserted for some weeks. We then marched south, crossed the Springfield road, and shortly afterward we struck the trail of the bushwhackers going south; followed them up Roubidoux into Texas County, where they broke up and scattered through the hills, so that we could not possibly follow them. Here we turned and took a northeast course and came to the farm of Judge Bates. Here we learned that there was a man by the name of J. W. Tigg, a man well known as a guerrilla, [who] was then at his home in that neighborhood. We went to the house of Tigg, who broke and ran as we were approaching the house. We pursued him, but he had the advantage of us, being mounted on a horse both fresh and fleet, while our own were completely jaded and worn out. From this place we scotted through the country, generally in the direction of Waynesville, where we arrived on the 12th all right. On the 13th we left camp and marched in a southerly direction. We scouted the country int his direction, and returned to camp on the 19th without having made any discoveries worthy of note.

Our horses being completely worn out we were obliged to recruit them for day or two, after which we again started in a northerly direction. We scouted the country in this direction until the 25th, when we returned to camp. we learned that Burt Woods was about 5 miles south of Waynesville with a gang of thieves, numbering somewhere in the vicinity of 30 or 40. We started in an easterly course until we struck the trail by which we supposed Woods and his gang would pass in the morning. Upon examination however, we found that the guerrillas had already passed. At once we commenced our march on his track. About 10 a. m. we ran into the party about 2 miles from Mr. Lewis' place, on Spring Creek. We charged on them while they were in the act of making prisoners of Mr. Lewis and another Union man. The guerrillas undertook to give us a fight, but we dashed at them with such unearthly yells that they could not stand our approach. They broke for the woods, and we got but 2 men with their horses and rigging. One of the men killed was supposed to be Burt Woods, the leader of the band. We learned from one of the men before he died that there were about 60 bushwhackers in that vicinity, some of whom had gone north to Miller County. We then started for camp, where we arrived all right on the evening of the 29th.

We would here state that all contraband property taken by us during the past month has been turned over to Major Fischer, commanding post at Waynesville. On the 1st of March we started for Rolla, where we arrived on the same evening safe and sound.

B. R. MOORE.

F. L. HARD.

AARON S. VAIL,

Chief of Scouts.