Lieutenant JOHN S. SULLIVAN,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 13. Report of Lieutenant Colonel Samuel A. Moore, Fourteenth Connecticut Infantry.

HDQRS. FOURTEENTH CONNECTICUT VOLUNTEERS,
February 8, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to submit the following report of the part taken by this regiment in the action of the 6th near Morton's Ford, on the Rapidan:

At about 1 p. m. on Saturday, the 6th, the brigade to which this regiment is attached was ordered to cross the Rapidan at Morton's Ford. This was effected in good order by fording the river, which at that point is nearly waist deep, and with but little opposition from the enemy. As the regiment, however, moved over the crest of the first hill they opened a shell fire upon us, but without causing us any loss, as their aim was a little too high. About half a mile from the ford the regiment took up its position with the rest of the brigade under the slope of a hill and in rear of a small white house. Here we remained in line of battle, being occasionally shelled by the enemy until about 5 p. m. At this time the rebels made an attack upon our position, and this regiment was ordered out to the support of the skirmish line, commanded by Colonel Baird.

The regiment advanced upon the enemy deployed as skirmishers, and drove back their line of battle for upward of half a mile to a place where there were about a dozen small houses and out-buildings situated in a grove of trees. Here the enemy made a stand, and the regiment fought them hand to hand, in some cases using the bayonet, until the One hundred and eighth New York Volunteers and the battalion of the Tenth New York coming to our aid enabled us to drive them from the buildings. We held this point for upward of an hour until ordered to withdraw to our former position, which we did, leaving a strong picket to keep the enemy from advancing while we were carrying off our dead and wounded. We brought off all of the dead and wounded whom we could find, but owing to the darkness of the night some probably escaped our search. At about 11 p. m. we recrossed the river, taking our dead and wounded with us. Our brigade then took up a position near the ford to check any movement of the enemy in case they should attempt to cross to our side. Here we remained until the night of the 7th, when the troops of the Second Corps returned to their former camping-grounds, leaving the Fourteenth to guard the crossing at Morton's Ford during the night. At about 11 a. m. to-day we were relieved and returned to camp.

Our casualties in engagement were as follows:*

Captain F. B. Doten, of Company F, while trying to capture a party of rebels in one of the houses, was himself taken prisoner. The officers and men in almost every case behaved themselves in such a manner as to reflect credit upon themselves and upon the command.

I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. A. MOORE,

Lieutenant Colonel, Commanding Fourteenth Connecticut Volunteers.