Numbers 5. Report of Captain John F. B. Mitchell, Second New York Cavalry.

CAMP SECOND NEW YORK VOLUNTEER CAVALRY, Stevensburg, Va., March 15, 1864.

CAPTAIN; In obedience to orders received from the general commanding division, I have the honor to make the following report relative to what was done by the expedition commanded by the late Colonel Dahlgren, and also as to the facts connected with the orders and papers alleged to have been found on his person:

The command amounted to 500 men, and consisted of detachments from the First Maine, First Vermont, Fifth Michigan, Fifth and Second New York Volunteers Cavalry. We left division headquarters at Stevensburg, Va., at 6 p. m. February 28, 1864, and marched to Ely's Ford, which we reached about 11 p. m. We crossed the river, and a party of the Fifth New York Cavalry, under Lieutenant Merritt, and Hogan, the scout, captured the enemy's picketpost, 1 officer and 14 men, belonging to a North Carolina regiment of cavalry. The colonel then pressed on to Spotsylvania Court-House, which he reached at early dawn on the 29th February, marched on in the direction of Frederick's Hall till 8 a. m., when he halted for fifteen minutes of feed the horses; then pressed on again to within three-fourths of a mile of Frederick's Hall Station, which we reached about 11 a. m.

On the road we captured 16 artillery soldiers belonging to the Maryland Battalion. They told us that at the station there were three different camps, eight batteries in each, in all about ninety-six guns; that there was a regiment of infantry near at hand and a battalion of sharpshooters in each camp. Here we captured also 12 artillery officers on court-material-1 colonel, 1 major, and 8 or 9 captains. What information they gave to Colonel Dahlgren I am unable to state, but he determined not to attack the camp and moved around them, cutting the railroad and telegraph about 1 mile south of the station. While we were engaged tearing up the railroad and bending the rials, at rains came down from the north, but seeing the smoke of our fires, did not come near enough for us to attack.

We now pushed on to the South Anna, which we crossed about 10 o'clock on the night of the 29th instant. It was raining and so intensely dark that it was almost impossible to keep the column closed up, and some 50 men were lost in the darkness, but joined us again in the morning near Goochland Court-House. About 2 a. m. the colonel halted. The name of the place I am unable to state, but think it was about 9 miles from Goochland.

At daylight of the morning of the 1st of March we marched on toward the James River and stopped for a few minutes near Horton's house, on the canal, about 21 miles from Richmond. Here Colonel Dahlgren gave me orders to take the detachment (100 men) of the Second New York Cavalry, the ambulances, prisoners, led horses, &c., and proceed down the canal, destroying locks, burning mills, canal-boats, and all the grain I could find; that when I came to Westham Creek I should send the ambulances, prisoners, &c., under guard to Hungary Station, there to join General Kilpatrick and the main column; that I was then to proceed down the river road or the canal, as I might see fit, while he, with the main portion of his command, was to cross the James River at a force which his guide was to show him, release the prisoners, and enter Richmond by, I believe, the Mayo Bridge. here I was to join him, if possible; if not, make my way Hungary Station and join General Kilpatrick. He then divided the torpedoes, giving me one box, some turpentine and oakum. He then started ahead of me. I struck the canal and moved down along its bank, sending the ambulances, &c., under guard of Lieutenant Randolph and 20 men, on the river road, with orders to join me at Manakin's Ben. Along the canal I destroyed six flourishing grist-mills, filled with grain and flour, one saw-mill,six canal-boats, loaded with grain, the barn (also well filled) on Secretary Seddon's plantation, coal-works at Manakin's Ferry, and Morgan's Lock just above. Here I found that there were neither canal-boats, locks, nor mills on the canal till the Three-Mile Lock, i. e., 3 miles from Richmond. I could not bring the ambulances on the tow-path, so I took the river road again, reaching which I was surprised to find the tracks of Colonel Dahlgren's party, and farther on the dead body of a negro hanging from a tree on the roadside. It seems that Colonel Dahlgren intended to cross the James River by a ford, to which his guide (this negro) promised to guide him. There was neither ford nor bridge; the guide had known it, and in his indignation the colonel hung him.

Colonel Dahlgren, finding there was no way to cross the James save by a very small scow, abandoned the project and proceeded to the cross-roads, about 8 miles from Richmond, I think near Short Pump. Here I joined him about 3. 30 p. m. He now sent off the ambulances, prisoners, led horses, &c., under guard and in charge of the signal officer. That is the last I saw of them. At this place we captured 3 militiamen, splendidly mounted, belonging to Custis Lee's City Battalion, who had been sent out to stand picket against us, as they had just heard of our approach.

The colonel having seized three wagon loads of corn, ordered the horses fed and coffee made for the men. We halted for an hour and a half, then hearing General Kilpatrick's guns, we advanced inside the fortifications, crossing the railroad down the plank road toward Richmond. About 5 miles from the city we were met by a volley from the woods, the Fifth Michigan in the advance. It was now growing dark, but we pushed on. At first there was some wavering. Every now and then a volley was poured into the ranks. It grew rapidly darker and darker; soon you could see nothing but the flash of the enemy's muskets. They were dismounted, and the only way we had of advancing was to charge over their line of skirmishers. This was done time and again, taking over 200 prisoners, but also losing heavily in killed and wounded. Finally, from the increased fire it appeared that the enemy had received re-enforcements, and the colonel gave the order to retrieve after we had driven the enemy 2 1\2 miles. He called for the Second New York and ordered me to take command of the rear guard and keep well closed up with the main column. He proceeded to the point where we first struck the plank road; here the column halted. After some time, becoming anxious as to the reason, I sent forward Lieutenant Mattison, acting adjutant Second New York Cavalry, who reported that the column had become separated; that Colonel Dahlgren and Major Cooke with about 100 men had gone on, and the rest of the column had lost sight of them in the darkness. I sent out scouts in all directions, but could hear nothing of them, and being the senior officer left assumed command. In obedience to orders mentioned above, I tried to go to Hungary Station. After reaching the Brook pike and getting with 11\2 miles of Hungary Station, the advance guard was halted by a picket, who, on finding out whom we were, immediately fell back. We could see camp-fires ahead of us, and could also hear cannonading and the rattle of small-arms. The officers of the command all thought that we had better make a dash through their line, if possible. This we attempted, and were met by a galling fire from a log-house and bushed along the road. Here the scout Kearney and some others were severally wounded. We were forced to desist, and counter-marched toward Short Pump. Captain Hastings, Fifth Michigan Cavalry, found from some citizens that there was a by-road by means of which we could get to Hungary Station, and we marched to within 1 1\2 miles of that place. Previous to this, finding it impossible to keep the prisoners up with the column, and being surrounded on all sides, what to their disappointment. Acting on Lieutenant Cunningham's advice, I moved the command into the pine woods about one-quarter of a mile from the road. This was about 2 a. m., March 2. We could hear the rebel cavalry moving on the road, and finally they encamped about one-half a mile away from us.

Before dawn we marched out toward Hungary, found that General Kilpatrick was not there, and then took a mountain road, which led to the Louisa Court-House and Richmond turnpike. Crossing this we attempted to go to the plank road leading to Hanover Court-House, but were stopped by a strong line of infantry skirmishers. We then learned that there was a heavy force awaiting us at Ground Squirrel Bridge over the South Anna, so we turned to the right, crossed the Chickahominy at Riles' Mills, and found a Union citizen, who put us on the road to Atlee's Station. On reaching this place we drove in a picket of 35 men, and our column,more especially the rear guard of the First Vermont Cavalry, was fired on by a number of mounted rebels.

We pushed on toward New Castle, making our way to the White House, having learned that General Kilpatrick had gone that way with the main force. Every few minutes the advance guard would have a skirmish with some of the enemy, till finally, about 8 miles from Tunstall's Station, the enemy seemed to have collected their forces, about 200 in number, and opposed our farther passage by well directed volleys from the pine woods in front. We determined to charge through them, Lieutenant Andrew, of the First Maine, and Lieutenant Cunningham, of the Second New York, leading the charge and driving the enemy before them. In this charge we lost about 20 men; Captain Hastings, of the Fifth Michigan Cavalry, having his horse shot under him. About an hour and a half after this I joined General Kilpatrick's main column near Tunstall's Station, about 4 miles from the White House. We reached him about 5. 30 p. m. with about 260 men.

To Captain Hastings, Fifth Michigan Cavalry, Lieutenant Andrew, First Maine, and Lieutenants Mattison and Cunningham, Second New York Cavalry, I am indebted for valuable aid and counsel. The prompt obedience and ready co-operation of the officers and men of all detachments in the expedition deserve my greatest thanks. the movements of Colonel Dahlgren and Major Cooke, after our separation, are better known to you than to myself.

With regard to the address and memoranda of plans alleged by rebel papers to have been found on Colonel Dahlgren's person, I would state that no address of any kind was ever published to either officer or men; that none of Colonel Dahlgren's plans, save what I have mentioned in the first part of my report, were ever made known to either officers or men in the expedition, and that i know it was not Colonel Dahlgren's intention to kill Jeff. Davis, in case he could be captured.

The following is a list of killed, wounded, and missing as accurately as I can get it: One officer killed, 4 officers missing, 194 enlisted men killed, wounded, and missing. Of this number about 60 are believed to be either killed or wounded.

Respectfully submitted.

JNO. F. B. MITCHELL,

Captain Second New York Volunteer Cavalry.

Captain L. G. ESTES,

Assistant Adjutant-General.