HEADQUARTERS EMIGRANT ROAD EXPEDITION.

Camp Bruneau, Snake River, September 22, 1862.

GENERAL: On the 19th day of August the command moved from Camp Owyhee, marching slowly, and meeting more or less emigrants almost every day. We arrived at this camp on the 28th, saw but few Indians, and those upon the opposite side of the river. Grass being very scarce and indifferent from Owyhee to this point, I determined to muster here on the 31st, this being an excellent camp with large amount of good grass. Our stock was much improved by the 1st instant, when we continued the march, arriving at the falls early on the 4th. On the 5th moved to Fall River, five miles above the falls. I established a depot at Camp Bruneau, leaving the bulk of our commissary stores and means of transportation taking with me 125 men and twenty days' provisions. Found a few Indians at the falls, apparently quite friendly but pretending entire ignorance of all depredations committed at any former period. The Indians seen at the falls are the only ones who have visited our camps. Our intercourse with them was friendly and without any misunderstanding. They expressed doubts as to whether it would be possible to effect a treaty with any considerable number of the tribe. They appear to understand well that soldiers will not kill them indiscriminately and only upon some show of guilt, and that so long as they know nothing or pretend ignorance of all offenders, the Government has no means of fixing guilt upon any. Captain Crawford, commanding the escort from Omaha City, arrived at our camp on Fall River on the 8th instant all well, and gave it as his opinion that he had the last of the emigrants with him. I sent a detachment forty miles up the river. They returned reporting none on the road. I determined to leave the falls and return to this camp, where I shall remain, sending out detachments as circumsttil the 27th or 28th, when I shall commence the march for Fort Walla Walla. While on the march to and from the falls and while there, in all eighteen days, the animals of the expedition suffered very much, grass being very scarce and of very indifferent quality. Nothing definite has been heard of the Van Orman children. Their uncle, Z. Van Orman, has gone through to Salt Lake City. In this connection I will mention that one Indian at the falls said that it was massacre, and that the children were taken prisoners. Since then he had heard nothing of them, but had no doubt they had been killed. The emigration for Oregon and Washington is very large, amounting to 1,300 wagons with 5,000 people. They have met with very little trouble from Indians, and that at or near Raft River, Fort Hall appearing to be the focus of their operations east and west. At the falls they say that a war council is being held in that vicinity at present, to determine upon peace or war with other tribes, the Blackfeet, &c. From the character, as charged by the emigrants, of the depredations committed this season I cannot resist the conclusion but that white persons were the instigators and allies of the Indians.

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. F. MAURY,

Lieutenant-Colonel First Cavalry Oregon Volunteers.

Commanding Emigrant Road Expedition.

General BENJAMIN ALVORD.

Commanding District of Oregon, Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.