HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF OREGON,
Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter., October 8, 1862.

J. J. McGILVRA, Esq.,

U. S. Attorney for Washington Territory, Walla Walla:

SIR: I have the acknowledge the reception of your communication of the 27th ultimo. I have not in any instructions from this office designed to interpret the laws for any other department of the Government but the military. Any interpretation which the civil officers of the Government may place upon them it is in their power to carry out. I did not deem it advisable as a practical question that the military should originate or institute proceedings in certain impracticable cases under the act of 13th of February, 1862. It is the first duty of the military to defend the frontiers. It should also, as far as it can, aid the civil authority. If you in the discharge of your duty choose to institute any proceedings under the laws, and if the marshal in obeying the mandate of the magistrate cannot get a sufficient civil posse, and calls upon the military, we are bound to assist him. This is the general rules. Any exception would grow out of extraordinary circumstances. It was reported to me by the inhabitants that the commanding officer at Fort Colville had arrested a white man in whose possession liquor was found, who was passing through the country of Spokane. It became a question whether I should authorize a conflict with the Territorial authorities who had organized a county and extended their laws over it. I knew that Judge Oliphant had held court at Colville. I said to Major Rumrill, "As we do not undertake to prevent the transit and mining of the whites, it is idle to prevent liquor being sent to or sold to them. The laws of the Territory must govern in these matters. " I meant by this, perfect submission to the laws of the land. If the laws of the Territory are in conflict with the laws of Congress or the Constitution of the United States, theoid, and are, in point of fact, no laws. I did not dream of putting these laws superior to the laws of Congress. I have enjoined in the strongest terms the enforcement of the laws against the sale of liquor to Indians and the destroying of liquor in the hands of those who sell to them. The fact of 13th of February applies in that respect to the whole Territory, leaving no ground to raise the question of what is "Indian country. " I have notified the commander that they had this option in stopping the sale of liquor to Indians, to make complaint either under the laws of the Territory or under the laws of Congress. My object in this was only to increase the chances of efficient action. Of course, if any competent judicial authority decides that the laws of the Territory are null and void, or cannot be enforced for want of jurisdiction upon an Indian reservation, nobody would resort for such purposes to the Territorial magistrates. It would seem reasonable that wherever the whites go in the Territory of Washington they must carry with them al the laws of the land for their own safety and protection. And this brings us to the main point at issue in this subject. We must either prevent the whites going in any way, except for mere transit, into that country, or we must suffer them to carry on the ordinary commence of the country. The first step is the false step. The Government has an undoubted right under the treaty to prevent their settling on the Nez Perce Reservation. On the 7th of July last I was placed in command of this district, and what was then the state of things? There were 10,000 or 15,000 people, either on that reservation or beyond it, compelled to look to Lewiston for supplies. I am not informed whether any branch of the Government attempted to prevent the whites going on it. The miners commenced going on it two years ago. I know of no call upon the military being made to remove them. I have been notified by C. H. Hale, esq., superintendent of Indian affairs for Washington Territory, that Lewiston and the mining towns have been "excepted from the strict provisions of the treaty by the Indians themselves. " I have not been ifnormed what was the exact date of said arrangement, but think it was made mroe than a year ago. Of course this arangmeent encouraged the whites to continue to enter the country. Lewiston seems an absolute necessity as a depot of supplies to the large mining population. Florence is also on servation. Having admitted the imossibility of keeping the miners in search of gold from that country, it seems but natural and expedient to let all the trade which follows be regulated by the laws. As commerce for al the wants of the peopole int he nature of things will inevitably exist, the remaining practical question is, whether it shall be wholy unregulated, or shall the laws of the Territory be permitted to control and restrain it.

You, as a law officer of the Government, should be ready to construe with tolerance all action of the military having for its purpose to leave the people int he enjoiyment of the laws and of civil government. Unles the necessity is irresisitble, the military should leave the whites to their own self-government. Military rule is always odious. It is for this reason I would not wish to stop the formation of counties where the whites are suffered to go. A more fearful responsibility than an Indian war might follow any other course on the part of the military authorities. As to the Colville country, the donation act was in operation up to the 1st of December, 1855, and whites were nvited under it into that region. By an act of Congress of 17th of July, 1854, and by the act of 29th of May, 1858, all the provisions of this donation act were extended to the country east of the Cascade Mountains (see Brightly's Digest, pp. 574 and 1105). By an order dated the 31st of October, 1858, issued by General Harney, then commanding the Department of Oregon, it was directed:

As it appears that citizens are prevented from locating near some of the military posts in this department, the general commanding directs that hereafter every encouragement will be given them to do so, provided no infringement is made upon either the military or Indian reservation.

When I came to Oregon in 1852 the Indian title had not been extinguished at Salem, the very seat of government, the Senate having refused to ratify the treaties. An attempt was made by Mr. Parrish, an Indian agent, to prevent the introduction of liquor at Salem for sale to the whites. A chief justice of Oregon Territory, then embracing Washington Territory (I think it was Judge Williams), decided that the Indian intercourse act of 1834 was not applicable there in respect to the introduction of liquor for sale to the whites. The act of 5th of June, 1850, extended the Indian intercourse law 'so far as applicable" over Oregon Territory. But he argued that Congress having, by the donation act, invited the settlement of the country by the whites, that portion of the intercourse law was not applicable. It is certain that the pre-emption law does not authorize settlements where the Indian title has not been extinguished. But it is unfortunately too true that the whole early settlement of this country, both before and after the organizing of a Territorial government and the passage of the donation act, was in utter neglect of the Indian title. I lament this state of things, and know that it probably caused the former Indian wars and may cause another. I have instructed the military comanders to protect the Indians in the most efficient manner, to the extent of their power, from all aggression and violence, and from all encroachment on their grazing and agricultural lands. Our Indian relations, in their present attitude, are not according to my wishes. Far from it. They grew out of the policy of the Government in stimulating the early settlement of this country, and are also due to the gold mines and the irresistible spread of the whites int he search for gold.

I might here close, but I shall add a few words as to my personal history. In the spring of 1853, then captain Fourth Infantry and brevet major in command at Fort Dalles, I declared the country east of the Cascade Mountains not open for settlement. I sought repeatedly from the Government, in the most earnest manner, a decision as to whether that was not the Indian country under the act of 1834. That act says that the President shall, when he thinks proper, order the execution of said act. I never got any decision from Washington. I was not sustained. The only efect of my movement was the passage of the act of 17th of July, 1854, extending all of the land laws east of the Cascade Mountains. Major Lugenbeel says he repeatedly sought from higher authority and from Washington a decision as to whether the country around Fort Colville, where he then commanded, was the Indian country, but he never received any reply. My instructions to Major Rinearson, commanding at Camp Lapwai, have received the approval of my immediate commander, General George Wright, at Smmanding the Department of the Pacific. I shall most cheerfully obey anyorders on this subject which I may receive from higher authority. I desire to add, also, that I have felt a strong personal interest in the Nez Perce Indians. From their evidences of dawning civilization and their past unwavering attachment to our people and adhesion to our Government amidst every temptation, they have merited not only justice, but the kindest and most generous treatment at our hands. It is melancholy to reflect that the march of events should have caused them to have received such rough usage, and to be placed in a position so trying to their loyalty. I hope they will look favorably upon the recent offer of Congress to purchase a portion or the whole of the reservation.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

B. ALVORD,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Volunteers, Commanding District.