SALINA, May 31, 1864

T. O. OSBURN,

U. S. Marshal for the State of Kansas:

DEAR SIR: On Tuesday, the 17th of May, a man came in great haste from the west to this place having rung down 2 horses in 40 miles,

stating that the Indians had attacked the ranches on the Fort Riley and Ford Larned road, killed some and taken the mail stock, and that they were coming toward the settlement. I immediately called the settlement together, and in a few hours we were prepared for an attack.

Wednesday the stage drivers and ranch keepers came in and partially confirmed the report. A man by the name of Walker, at the Cow Creek ranch, who was tending stock for the Kansas Stage Company had been shot and the others fired at by the Indians; the men from the ranch, however, driving them back, killing 2 and wounding another. The men from the ranch then fled, supposing that the Indians would soon be back with re-enforcements.

The ranch keeper at Walnut also reported that they made their appearance at his ranch, ordered him to leave instanter, or he would be killed and took away with them his wife, a Cheyenne squaw. They told him that they had just had a fight with the troops from Colorado on the Smoky Hill, that their chief had been killed, and that they intended to kill all the whites they could find, but being friendly toward him on account of his wife warned him to get out of the way. Upon receiving this news, I immediately dispatched a messenger to Fort Riley for troops. Forty-five immediately started for our place, arriving about midnight Thursday night. Friday morning, with 15 soldiers, under Lieutenant Van Antwerp and a posse of citizens, I started west to search for the mail, which was supposed to be on the road somewhere, and to bury the man killed at Cow Creek. We found the man, the arrow still sticking in his body, buried him, and proceeded on west with the 15 soldiers in search of the mail.

We found all the ranches west of this deserted and sacked, but could find nothing of the mail till we reached Fort Larned, where we found it had not started, as the Colorado troops who had the fight with the Indians had reached the fort in thirty-six or forty hours after the fight and reported the danger.

The commander of the post called a council of the Arapahoes, Kiowas, and Comanches who were about the fort, to know their intentions. They will professed themselves adverse to going to war, but none but the Comanches seemed to have any censure for the Cheyennes. They said the Sioux were with the Cheyennes and that 10 Sioux and 7 Cheyennes were killed in the fight; said the Indians claimed the victory and were still in the same vicinity where the fight occurred; admitted that they had asked them to join them. While they were thus nominally professing to be peaceable, they robbed a train of wagons within a few miles of the fort of all their provisions, and word came that they had just robbed a corn train on the road to Fort Lyon.

We started with the U. S. mail from Fort Larne don the 24th, and reached Saline in two days and a half without any difficulty, though we were watched by scouting parties of Indians all the way. The stage stock is all of the road for 100 miles and every station keeper has left.

Unless assistance, is promptly furnished the mail between the forts will be discontinued and the road abandoned. It is a hard blow on the settlement,for so long as these hostile Indians hold the country no one knows where they will strike, and all branches of industry are suffering. We were robbed by guerrillas in the fall of 1862. They took 50 head of mules, 2 horses, and rifled the stores, and my own opinion now is we stand in great danger from the same source. They can run stock from our country into Texas without any possibility of anything to obstruct them. Look on the map and you will see. My impression is that the Indians meditate a general war, and the move is simultaneous with the guerrilla movement on the border and in Missouri.

There is little doubt white men are instigating the move ment. I could find no proof of any of the ranchmen selling whisky, but I was very credibly informed that some of them on the Santa Fe road and one on the Riley road had been in the habit of trading them revolvers; that they had been very anxious to get them for some months past, and had paid exorbitant prices for them. I think this matter should be looked after. The stage company has now lost 16 mules on this route, and when the report came that the mail was interrupted and probably destroyed, I felt authorized to act. I traveled 100 miles and back on this errand.

Yours, truly,

H. L. JONES,

Deputy U. S. Marshal