HEADQUARTERS HUMBOLDT MILITARY DISTRICT.

Fort Humboldt, April 11, 1863.

COLONEL: I have the honor to report the return to Fort Baker of a detachment of thirty-two men of Company A, Second Infantry California Volunteers, from a twenty-two days' scout under Captain Flynn and Lieutenant Winchill. Theyhad four engagements with Indians: all successful. Two of them were fought by Lieutenant Winchill with a detachment of fifteen men. The number of dead Indians found was forty-six, the number killed was no doubt considerably more. Thirty-seven squaws and children were brought in as prisoners, of whom only twenty-two have arrived at this post, the remainder having succeeded in escaping on the way. The total number of Indian prisoners now confined here is eighty-four. The only posts that need be kept up in this district are Fort Humboldt and Fort Gaston. These could be garrisoned sufficiently by one or two companies of the Mountaineer Battalion, leaving four or five companies for scouting in the field. If the department commander should judge proper to continue any other posts I would respectfully suggest that these could be garrisoned also by the Mountaineer Battalion. Scouting in this district is exhausting to such a degree that the troops engaged in it must spend a portion of their time in garrison for repose and to recrut their strenght, and the mingling of the Humboldt volunteers with the men of my regiment at the same post would be demoralizing and dangerous to the discipline that they have been eighteen months in acquiring. In consideration of this I hope the department commander will withdraw all the companies of the Second Infantry California Volunteers from this district, where they are doing so little good, and concentrte them at some point where they may have an opportunity of acquiring regimental discipline and instruction.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
FRANCIS J. LIPPITT,

Colonel Second Infantry California Vols., Commanding Humboldt mil. dist.

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Department of the Pacific.