SAN PEDRO STATION, July 22, 1862.

SIR: I have the honor to inform you of my arrival at this post at 3 a. m. of this date in charge of the train which accompanied the command of Captain Roberts, First Infantry California Volunteers. The accompanying report* of that officer will explain the route over which we passed in going from Tucson, and the severe conflict had with the savages in Apache Pass, together with such other points of information as Captain Roberts may have possessed. Being fully impressed with the danger of attempting to take the train back through Apache Pass with my small command of thirty-nine men in the face of the fact that the Indians had not hesitated to attack and fight for six hours a command of 130, and knowing the value of the train, I returned by the road made by Captain (now General) Charles P. Stone. This route is about ten miles longer than the one leading to Dragoon Spring and through Apache Pass; but in all other respects it is so greatly superior that I am surprised the other should ever have been used. The first day I marched about thirty-three miles over a perfectly smooth and open country, with excellent road, and camped at a spot bearing north by west from the highest nubble on the Chiricahua Range, and where a side road puts out from the main one toward the above-mentioned range, leading to a fine green-looking canon three miles distance from the main road, and which is reported to yield abundance of water; but my limited command, the broken-down condition of my horses, and the absence of any commissioned officer with whom to leave the train, as well as the fact that I was supplied with waterfrom the tanks, induced me to refrain from exploring the canon, especially after the savages me to refrain from exploring the canon, especially after the savages inhabiting the range had given us so decided an example of their hostility. From the point above mentioned the road gradually circles the foothills over a fine open, rolling prairie, and from the extreme northern point of the foothills beares about west-southwest toward the two springs, where there is abundance of water and the best of pasture, distant from first camping place about twenty-four miles. From the twp springs the road first runs wet-southwest, until the foothills of the range in which Dragoon Spring is located are passed, when it trends nearly south for several miles, thence southwest until it meets the other road about fifteen miles beyond San Pedro Station, from which the two springs are about thirty-two miles distant. The whole of this route is over a clear open country, and the road excellent as well as the pasture. On the other road the grass at the cienega is coarse, rank sacaton, void of any nourishment; the same at the San Pedro' no grass at Dragoon Spring; none at the camp-ground, or near it, at Apache Pass, and but little and quite dry as well as infeerior at San Simon. As Captain Roberts marched by day and the horses were obliged for safeto to be tied to the picket-rope at night, and were entirely without grain, and almost altogether without grass, they are almost too weak to stand up, and I sincerely beg that the general would relieve me from road duty. I forwarded the dispatches and mail from San Simon by express. I am really so worn out and haggard that I beg you to excuse a more minute detail at this time.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN C. CREMORY,

Captain, Second Cavalry California Volunteers.

Lieutenant BENJAMIN C. CUTLER,

First Infantry California Volunteers, Actg. Asst. Adjt. General