February 15.-Weather cloudy, with light fall of rain. Command separated this morning and moved at daylight. Captain Majors, with three squadrons, moved in a westerly direction, with orders to continue on that course for 9 miles, and then, passing through Linenburg, in the main command at Jennings' farm, 6 miles from Hookram. The remaining portion of the command, comprising seven squadrons, moved in a southerly direction, and after traveling 2 miles, came to Strawberry Creek, and passing down the valley of that stream for 6 miles, halted at Martin's. At this point we remained two hours. Just as we came in sight of the house 3 men darted out and made for the woods; several of the men gave chase, but id not succeed in overtaking them. Fed at this place and sent tow squadrons in different directions in search of beef-cattle, with instructions to rejoin the command at Livingston's farm, 2 miles below our present camp. Leaving Martin's, we pushed on down Strawberry Creek, passing the plantation of Mr. Roberts. No cattle or forage. Moved on to Livingston's, where we found one of the beef details awaiting our arrival; they reported finding neither cattle nor forage. Pushed on to Smith's, one-half miles below, and waited forty minutes for arrival of second beef detail, which came in, making the same unfordable report. They saw and chased 3 mounted men, but did not succeed in overtaking them. The forage detail, which had been sent out under charge of Quartermaster Lowry, also returned and reported having killed 2 bushwhackers, Martin and son, but found no forage. They fired and burned a crib of corn at Martin's, as we could not carry it away. From information gathered we knew that this corn had been hidden for the use of a gang that made Martin's their headquarters. Pushing on half a mile farther, we passed Smith's farm; large clearing, but little cultivated; some little fodder in a field, but no corn. Passed cross-roads and continued on southerly cause 2 miles farther, and came to another crossroads. Sent one squadron in chase of a party of mounted men, whose fresh train was seen leading to the eastward, and during their absence, forty minutes, patrolled the roads in three directions. Squadron returned; met with no success. Started again in an easterly direction, and after traveling 2 miles crossed the Batesville and Salem raod; one-half mile further crossed Strawberry Creek and moved on to Gault's plantation, one-half mile from the creek, where we camped; distance traveled, 21 miles. Found plenty of forage for the animals. Sent off scouting parties in different directions during the night to gather information concerning the enemy and learn whereabouts of forage.