Major-General FOSTER,

Commanding Department of the South:

GENERAL: Information reached me yesterday, from a source apparently reliable (a Mr. Whitely, refugee from Macon, Ga.), that 900 cavalry were withdrawn from Florida on occasion of your recent advance near Charleston. Mr. W. saw them himself at Quitman on their way to Charleston.

Early last week I sent a party around Doctor's Lake, and a few miles west of it, which found no enemy except a few vedettes. In my recent advance up Trout Creek the whole number of the enemy did not exceed 75. These facts, with their great quiet in front of Jacksonville, led me to change my opinion in regard to their force at Baldwin and Camp Milton. The people of Nassau County speak confidently of three battalions or regiments at these two places, but I must think their number is small. I shall therefore act promptly on the permission so kindly accorded me in your favor of the 15th ultimo, and make a decided move on the trestle-work in rear of Baldwin. With the troops now here I feel that I ought to be able to do this. My plan is to land above the mouth of Black Creek, and march via Middleburg, by the Clay Hill road, to the Alachua trail. At the crossing of the trail and Fernandina railroad, to destroy the latter before 10 a. m., so as to prevent the two locomotives from Gainesville with the trains form passing up to Baldwin. Then dashing on with cavalry and one rifled gun, I propose to strike the Lake City railroad, at the point where the Alachua trail crosses it, near Barber's, and as nearly as possible about 11.30 a. m., the time of arrival of the Lake City train at Baldwin. The trestle-work near Barber's, 12 miles from Baldwin, is 250 yards and 30 feet high; that at Darby's, 7 miles from Baldwin, is 400 yards long and 30 feet high; that at Deep Creek, 2 miles from Baldwin, is 100 feet long. These trestles are guarded, I am told, by a force of boys and old men. Our cavalrymen will handle these with ease. I m now getting ready to move. I shall start on Sunday or Monday. If I succeed in destroying the trestle-work, circumstances will determine my course. Baldwin, with its six guns, locomotives, and trains, may fall into our hands. If I can assault it successfully, I will. Or I may move down the Cedar Keys railroad, capturing the two locomotives, some hundred horses, and a large number of contrabands. I shall go in light marching order and move quickly on the roads.

Accept my acknowledgment for your kindness hitherto, and believe me, your obedient servant,

WM. BIRNEY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.