JANUARY 29 - FEBRUARY 1, 1864. - Expedition to Isle of Wight County, Va., skirmishers near Benn's Church and at Smithfield, and destruction of the U. S. steamer Smith Briggs.

Report of Brigadier General Charles K. Graham, U. S. Army, commanding Naval Brigade. *

HEADQUARTERS NAVAL BRIGADE,
Norfolk, Va., February 2, 1864.

GENERAL: I have the honor to report the following as the result of an expedition organized under my command for the purpose of capturing a small force of the enemy which was reported to be stationed on the peninsula formed by Pagan and Chuckatuck Creeks and the Nansemond River.
On the afternoon of the 29th January the gun-boat Flora Temple was ordered to proceed to Chukatuck Creek, to make a thorough reconnaissance at daylight the next morning, and the gun-boat Smith Briggs was sent up the Nansemond; both vessels to return about the same time, anchor at the mouth of the Nansemond, and await my arrival in the gun-boat General Jessup.

On the afternoon of the 30th, I left Norfolk in the gun-boat General Jessup, accompanied by the transport Long Branch, having on board a detachment of cavalry, a howitzer squad, and a few infantry, which was subsequently increased by additions from my gun-boats' crews to make the detachments number about 90 men, which force was placed under the command of Captain Lee, of the harbor police. The fog became so dense before reaching the mouth of the Nansemond that the gun-boat General Jessup grounded, in consequence of which both vessels were compelled to anchor and remain until morning.

At daylight on the 31st, we proceeded up the Nansemond and were joined there by the Flora Temple and Smith Briggs. Lieutenant-Commander Gillis, commanding the U. S. naval gun-boat Commodore Morris, which was stationed there, came on board, generously offered his co-operation, and it was gratefully accepted. The gun-boat Smith Briggs, with two launches and their crews from the steamer Foster, and the U. S. naval gun-boat Commodore Morris, all under the command of Lieutenant-Commander Gillis, who had received 50 additional men from the flagship Minnesota, were ordered to proceed up the Nansemond as far as Holloway Point, at which point they were to land at 2 p. m. and advance to the village of Chuckatuck and join the force which would land at Smithfield under my direction. Everything being in readiness, I sailed with the gunboats General Jessup and Flora Temple and the transport Long Branch at 10. 30 a. m. for Smithfield, on Pagan Creek, and arrived at that point at 1 p. m. At 1. 25 o'clock the force was landed, the whole under the command of Captain Lee, of the Ninety-ninth New York Volunteers. Captain Lee was ordered to advance to Chuckatuck village, form a junction with the force landed on the Nansemond, engaging the enemy on the way if his passage should be resisted. I remained with the gun-boats General Jessup and Flora Temple, having placed them in position to command the town, stopping there two hours to cover the retreat of the force under Captain Lee, should it be compelled to fall back before a superior force of the enemy. At 3 p. m. the Flora Temple was ordered to proceed to Chuckatuck Creek and engage the attention of the enemy, known to be stationed in the neighborhood of Cherry Grove, and prevent its advance against the force landed at Smithfield. At 4 p. m., having heard no firing, and supposing Captain Lee to have met with no enemy, I sailed with gun-boat General Jessup and transport Long Branch for Holloway Point, on the Nansemond River. Having reached the mouth of Pagan Creek, the gun-boat Flora Temple was discovered to be aground, and it was not until about 5 p. m. that she was got off. I then ordered the General Jessup and Long Branch to put on a full head of steam and proceed with the utmost dispatch to Holloway Point.

The weather was very inclement, and the fog became so dense toward night that it was almost impossible to proceed. Arriving at the mouth of the Nansemond, the pilot stated that he could not go up, as it would be impossible to keep the channel. Ordering the pilot of the General Jessup to go on board the Long Branch, she being of light draught, I directed him to make the effort to reach Holloway Point. Arrived at that place at 8 p. m., and was informed by Lieutenant-Commander Gillis that Captain McLaughlin, with 40 men, had advanced to Chuckatuck village; remained there until dark and returned, reporting that he had heard heavy firing in the direction of Smithfield, which he supposed to have been occasioned by the enemy resisting our landing at that point. Surprised at the non-arrival of the force which had landed at Smithfield, I ordered a detachment of 20 men to land and advance a mile toward Chuckatuck and look out for it, and directed the gun-boat Smith Briggs (taking the remainder of Captain McLaughlin's detachment on board the Long Branch) to sail, with orders to the Flora Temple and General Jessup to proceed at daylight to Chuckatuck Creek, reconnoiter thoroughly, and report the result to me in the Nansemond. On the return of the Smith Briggs I dispatched her at 6. 30 a. m. with a communication to Rear-Admiral Lee, at Newport News, giving the facts as they stood, requesting him to communicate the same to you, and informing him that I should land at daylight with all the force at my disposal and march to Chuckatuck. After delivering the dispatch, Captain Rowe was ordered to proceed at once to Smithfield. I landed about 7 a. m. with a detachment of 80 men, 50 of them seamen from the Commodore Morris, kindly furnished to me by Lieutenant-Commander Gillis, under command of Captain McLaughlin, and three officers of the Commodore Morris, accompanied by my two aides, and proceeded to Chuckatuck village. Finding no enemy there I ordered an advance a mile beyond, but could gain no tidings of the missing detachment. After remaining there for an hour, without hearing any firing, fearing the detachment had been captured or dispersed, I returned to the river to make other dispositions.

At this time, about 11. 30 a. m., the U. S. naval gun-boat Commodore Jones came up with a dispatch from Rear-Admiral Lee to Lieutenant-Commander Gillis, stating that Ensign Harris had escaped from Smithfield; that Captain Lee's detachment was surrounded at that point, and short of ammunition. Rear-Admiral Lee very kindly volunteered to do all in his power to relieve the detachment at Smithfield, and stated that launches with howitzers and ammunition had already been sent. Upon the receipt of this information I immediately sailed for Smithfield, ordering the gun-boat General Jessup, which was lying at the mouth of Chuckatuck Creek, to accompany me. On reaching the mouth of Pagan Creek, about 4 p. m., the information was communicated to me by an officer of the U. S. naval gun-boat Commodore Barney that the Smith Briggs with the detachment of Captain Lee had been captured, and a few moments afterward a terrific explosion occurred, the enemy having blown up the Smith Briggs to prevent her recapture. About the same time a white flag was discovered to be waving ont he banks of Pagan Creek, a mile or so distant from its mouth. A boat was ordered from the Jessup to ascertain the cause, and returned with Captain lee and 3 others. The Pagan Creek by the Smith Briggs, were received with such a terrific fire from riflemen that after discharging their howitzers they were compelled to retire, the commanding officer and several of the men having been severely wounded.

For a full statement of the capturing of the force under Captain Lee and the gun-boat Smith Briggs you are respectfully referred to Captain Lee's report, which accompanies this. * All the officers and men under my immediate observation acted energetically, and from the reports of the escaped I am satisfied that Captain Lee, Ensign Harris, Lieutenant Harris, of the Jessup, and Sergeant Hyatt deserve the most honorable mention. Captain Rowe, of the Smith Briggs, although severely wounded through the neck, remained at his post, gallantry fighting his vessel until she was entirely disabled. The men fought most heroically, inflicting terrible loss on the enemy.

My obligations are due to Rear-Admiral Lee for the alacrity with which he responded to my application for assistance, and the generous efforts made under his direction to rescue the beleaguered force under Captain Lee; likewise to Lieutenant-Commander Gillis for the essential aid he rendered me in the loan of 50 seaman, and to the officers who commanded them for the cheerfulness with which they obeyed my orders.

A list of the killed and wounded, as far as known, also of the missing, will be forwarded as soon as a reliable report can be obtained.

I am, general, very respectfully, &c.,

CHARLES K. GRAHAM,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.