HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES IN TEXAS,
Matagorda Peninsula, January 18, 1864

Major General E. O. C. ORD,

Commanding Thirteenth Army Corps, New Orleans:

I wrote you a hurried unofficial note by Major Seward yesterday, and since then nothing of interest has transpired here.

This is the sixth day since my arrival here, and my time has been mostly occupied in reconnoitering. I spent one day at Indianola, where all of the First Division now in Texas in concentrated, and where I have to-day ordered the Sixteenth Ohio Battery and one 30-pounder of Battery L, [First] Indiana. I have taken the brigade from Matagorda Island, and now have all the white troops at this pass now stationed on the peninsula under command of Ransom, Fort Esperanza is garrisoned by the Fourteenth Rhode Island Heavy Artillery and seven companies of the Second Engineers, Corps d'Afrique, under command of Colonel Cobb. The forces at Indianola are under the immediate command of General Benton. I shall begin to fortify that place to a small extent.

I presume you have had access to my reports made heretofore to the major-general commanding the department, and are informed as to my views as to the disposition of the forces now on the Rio Grande;l they are of no effect now, but if needed on that frontier should be mostly posted near the Nueces River. If the cavalry force now there, which has been nursed and organized with much trouble and great cost of time, sent on a cotton hunt to Eagle Pass or that vicinity they will get cotton, but will make themselves unserviceable so far as the necessary and effective co-operation with this force is concerned.

All the cavalry there an the batteries of artillery and half the infantry should march across the country to co-operate with this column, forming a junction near Victoria. All the infantry which does not march across should land at Corpus Christi or Copana and unite with the column again near San Patricio or Refugio. A movement of this force would at the same time meet that movement and support it either by its operations on the east or west of Lavaca Bay toward Texana, Hallettsville, or Victoria. A discreet officer, either General Herron or some other general officer, who, by his management, would prevent misunderstandings with our neighbors and would resist and discountenance corruption and speculation, should be put in command on the Rio Grande, with a garrison of 500 men at Brownsville and 200 at Brazos Island.

As for the trade with Eagle Pass and Lavaca,the defeat of Magruder involves the entire regulation of all those matters, as well as the complete revolution of Texas. We must meet him in the open field and beat him, otherwise we are wasting our time and forces to little effect, in occupying a few scattered points, the possession of which are not contested. We can beat him by concentrating a superior force and not allowing him time for more preparations. If we defeat him in the first general action Texas is revolutionized, and a large portion of its men will join us and his army will dissolve. If we risk a campaign against him with an inferior force, we may beat him, but if he should defeat us, or even hold his own in the first general engagement then we might justly expect to engage in a long campaign before we regained our present influence over the wavering portion of the population, whose confidence would be greatly shaken. I do not speak of a march up this peninsula for I have no idea it will at the present time be entertained. I have been to the mouths of the Caney, San Bernard, and Brazos, where I occupied a day in reconnoitering and shelling and at each of which places the enemy has erected strong works which cover considerable ground. He is evidently in force in that neighborhood and has several steam-boats, three of which I saw carrying supplies on his inland waters. Some of these boats are "cotton-clad," and one, the Carr, was lately supposed to have been destroyed. I have reason to suppose this is not so, or to believe the Carr still in order.

The mouth of the Caney is four marches from here and the mouth of the Brazos is five. Had the force of 4,000 men which first arrived here immediately pressed forward, it is most likely the first on the mouth of the Brazos would have been in our possession at the end of six days, and the blow would have been a mortal one to the rebel cause; but to attempt that march now would be under very different circumstances. The whole force we have here now is not an equivalent for that which we then had, as estimated merely against numbers; and, in addition to this the march would be contested and resisted at several points by fortifications across a narrow defile, where the enemy has expended a great deal of labor and skill in successive lines of defense to stop a line approach, which, according to the information he has had, and judging from the demonstrations which have been he is convinced we had decided you. Magruder has a large cavalry force, and we have none; for want of it we cannot obtain information nor scout actively, and are unable to pursue and punish any of his prowlers or marauding parties. To commence active operations effectively we ought to have 3,000 good cavalry. We have little or no transportation and require 200 wagons and 50 ambulances. We are well supplied with subsistence at present, having on hand about thirty days'. We need much clothing, estimates of which have been sent, but we ought not to be hindered by another greatcoat, as we have now by some blunder about 3,000, and we have camp-kettles and mess-pans enough for a large army.

Ammunition should be immediately forwarded. I have approved an estimate of the ordnance officer to-day. I hope you will see it attended to; if not, I have not much faith in receiving it. We are very badly in want of wood for fuel, and a very great deal of suffering exists because of it; we are obliged to go 10 miles to pick up soggy and rotten driftwood on the beach, and the work is attended with great danger of capture. Every light vessel which comes down should bring a few cords of wood, proportioned to her size, the large steamers bringing 20 or 30 cords and the schooners 5 or 6, for the quartermaster's department for issue to the troops. I am not sure that it would be judicious to obtain our supplies direct from New York, if a class of vessels can be obtained which are light enough to come over this bar loaded andd are fast. I believe the change would be beneficial. We want boats here badly, and I have directed Captain Constable to call for twelve, four of which shall be life-boats. We require about 125 artillery horses for the batteries here.

I understand my orders now to be, according to verbal communications from Major-General Washburn and dispatches addressed to him by the commanding general, which were received by me by the Alabama, and from the tenor of your letters of the 12th instant, not to attempt offensive operations, but to strengthen and fortify myself here and at Indianola, awaiting an increase of force and cavalry. Expeditions may be made for short marches into the interior, without much risk, but they are not attended with beneficial results. I doubt the policy of occupying a place, inducing our friends to expose themselves to certain punishment by espousing our cause openly, and then by a hurried abandonment for the purpose of securing our communication from interruption leaving them to the mercy of the assassins who have never been known to show mercy. I could, as I believe, march to Victoria any day, and occupy it, but the line from Indianola there is 40 miles, and from Lavaca there 26 miles, and without a heavy cavalry force it would keep my whole force actively engaged to keep that line secure in the face of such a force as Magruder has before us.

I take it for granted the remainder of the Third Division is on the way. There are still four regiments of the First Division in Louisiana, and two of the Fourth Division. When the whole corps and all its artillery is in Texas, and all the efficient men detained in the convalescent camp and about New Orleans are with it a portion of this column with that marching from the Rio Grande would with the aid of the cavalry above mentioned, make us strong enough to assume the offensive vigorously, with a fair prospect of beating Magruder in a hard-contested battle. I shall be very glad to receive you here, and will at all times be in readiness to aid you with all my powers, and to give effect to your orders with whatever ability I possess. I trust your health may now be such as to admit of your bearing the exposure of a campaign without subjecting you to the suffering you have lately experienced. I hope you will not think I have detained any member of your staff here, regardless of your wants and wishes; those I keep are such as I suppose, after consultation with Colonel Scates, Major Seward, and Major Ord, you would not care to have in New Orleans, and I am so poorly off in material here that they are indispensable to my operations here at present. You have only to notify me, when I shall send any and all you want, by the same steamer. I retain also a desk and printing press, in the conviction that you can replace them in a moment in New Orleans, and I cannot get them here at all.

I remain, with much respect and esteem,

N. J. T. DANA,

Major-General.