FEBRUARY 3-6, 1864.-Expedition from Brasher City, La.

Report of Colonel Nicholas W. Day, One hundred and thirty-first New York Infantry.

HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES,
Brasher City, La., February 6, 1864.

SIR: I would respectfully submit to the colonel commanding the district the following report of the expedition commanded by me, consisting of 75 infantry and one section of artillery, on the steamers J. M. Brown and Red Chief, which left here the evening of the 3rd instant:

We proceeded up Grand Lake in to Lac Fausses Pointe, at the extreme northern point of which we landed, at Dauteriove's plantation.

Saw some pickets of the enemy, who ran away as we approached. Found a good landing with 4 feet of water, and a good road to Saint Martinsville. Discovered traces of a camp that had been occupied lately by a force, perhaps 1,500 strong. There was a small work running across the road about 1,200 paces from the landing, with an abatis in front of it. Everything was deserted. Did not see anything of the force said to be on the lake. From there went up Bayou L'Embarras, but saw nothing. Obtained some 3 mules and 3 horses; one was marked "U. S." Have turned them over to the quartermaster. Returned through Lac Fausse Pointe and proceeded up Grand Lake through Lake Chicot, Bayou Chene, Lake Marringoula and Bauou Tensas, into Grand River, and landed at Offutt's saw-mill, where we took on some lumber. Sent 2 men in a skiff down Grand River, who returned and reported that they saw some men running down on the banks of the bayou.

Went down with the steamer Red Chief and came to a small bayou, up which I sent Captain Evans with a small party. The mente were after to the woods, excepting one, who remained with a flat-boat. He was taken in tow and brought to the steamer. He had on board his flat 5 or 6 bales of dry-goods, a box of sundries, a lot curry-combs, 4 or 5 sacks of coffee, 1 bale of rope, flour, potatoes, 3 bottles of quinine, with other parcels of medicine, &c.,and $30,000 in Confederate money, all of which I turned over to the provost-marshal. He had no papers authorizing him to take the goods outside of the lines, but said the officers at Plaquuemine knew of it. He gave his names Thorn. I also overhauled 2 Jews, who produced passes from provost-marshal to go outside the lines, and whom I then let go. I also took on Grand River, near Offutt's mill, 12 1\2 hogsheads of sugar. A man there claimed it and also claimed to be a Union man, and whom I brought down with me. The sugar I turned over to the post commissary. By all I can learn there is quite and extensive trade carried on between Plaquemine and Butte a a la Rose. I also took a Confederate soldier, who claimed to be a deserter; but doubting his story, brought him with me and delivered him to the provost-marshal. From Grand River we returned by way of Whisky By and Bay and Bayou La Rampe and Grand Lake, picking up on the way 2 men, who were running the lines.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

NICHOLAS W. DAY,

Colonel, Commanding Post.

Captain WILLIAM J. DENSLOW,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.