February 2.-The steamer Mill Boy was wrecked about 9 miles above Jacksonport; forage and subsistence stores lost; the gun on board was saved. A detachment First Nebraska Cavalry, under Lieutenant Murphy, ordered to Devall's Bluff for another boat, but returned, as the streams were so swollen. Captain Dunscomb, Third Arkansas Cavalry, who left this point January 30 for Little Rock, returned; left this place on the 4th for Little Rock, taking the road on this side of the White River; all ferry-boats destroyed. General McRae in possession of the south side of the Red River.

February 4.-Lieutenant Moore, First Nebraska Cavalry, left Batesville with 53 men for Smithville, Evening Shade, and Hookram; returned February 9.

February 6.-A flag of truce arrived from Colonel Freeman, in charge of Captain Wolf, rendering up 4 men taken while on picket by Colonel Freeman's forces.

February 7.-Sixty men Eleventh Missouri Cavalry and 8 men Fourth Arkansas Mounted Infantry, under command of Lieutenant-Colonel Stephens, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, 40 men First Nebraska Cavalry, under command of Captain Majors, same regiment, on a scout toward Smithville; returned on the 10th.

February 9.-Steamer Dove arrived at this point. Left on the 11th with the mail up to the 10th instant, inclusive; also 98 prisoners. Four squadrons of First Nebraska Cavalry, detached to Jacksonport for the purpose of guarding commissary and quartermaster's stores since January 18, returned.

February 12.-Lieutenant-Colonel Baumer, with 350 men of the First Arkansas Cavalry, left Batesville to attack Freeman's command; returned February 20. Same day a flag of truce from Colonel Freeman arrived, in charge of Lieutenant Wasson, C. S. Army, rendering up Captain P. B. Rouch, Company L, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, and 23 enlisted men Eleventh Missouri Cavalry.

February 19.-A forage train of thirty-five wagons, escorted by 50 men of the Eleventh Infantry, under command of Captain Castle, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, was attacked about 2 miles from Batesville by a band under command of Captain Rutherford, C. S. Army. Captain Castle and 2 men killed, 2 wounded, 29 captured, besides a number of teamsters. Immediately upon having received information 400 men were sent out. Colonel Livington took command, but the enemy had fled.

February 20.-A flag of truce from Captain Rutherford, in charge of Captain Monkin, First Arkansas Cavalry, C. S. Army, arrived. Same day another flag of truce, from Colonel Love, commanding scouts, C. S. Army, arrived in charge of Sergeant Cooper.

February 25.-A scout of 200 men Fourth Arkansas Mounted Infantry, in charge of Colonel Baxter, was sent out to recapture the mules, &c., captured by Captain Rutherford on the 19th instant.

February 27.-A detachment of 75 men of the First Nebraska Cavalry, under command of Captain Ribble, and 24 men Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, under command of Captain Kauffman, were sent out to re-enforce Colonel Baxter. Scout not returned yet.