Numbers 1. Report of Colonel William A. Phillips, Third Indiana Home Guard, commanding Indiana Brigade.

LITTLE RIVERTOWN, NEAR OLD FORT ARBUCKLE,

Creek Nation, February 16, 1864.

SIR: After heavy marching, day and night, I have reached this point, 105 miles from Fort Gibson, at which point my infantry and wagons under Colonel Wattles had reached night before last. With the force I took farthest south (450 mounted men and 1 howitzer) I could, of course, not fight the enemy after they had concentrated.

They declined sending any parties to height me, evidently designing to fight me on Red River in force, which was, of course, out of the question. I regret the non-arrival of the force promised me from Fort Smith, as I could have then been justified in attempting to drive them into Texas before they could complete their organization. I have, however, fully accomplished all the specific instructions of General McNeil with my present force.

I sent a force up the Canadian to the Seminole country to sweep north to the Arkansas, crossing and marching to Gibbon on the north side; Major Foreman with another up Little River to pursue the same course. I shall send another up North Fork and return with my baggage and forage train direct to Gibson. I am getting out an ox train from the county with wagons to haul to Gibson what corn there is that my command do not use. I hope to be able to get oxen enough to make a commissary train for my command as soon as grass grows.

We have left behind us copies of the President's proclamation in the Indian languages. I learned that General Maxey was present with the Choctaw legislature ten days ago, and urged them to remain at home and raise crops. There were delegations present from the Choctaw Nation, Creek (rebel portion), Cherokee (rebel portion), Chickasaw, &c. The Choctaws urged a separate confederacy, as the rebel Confederacy was unable to protect them. The rebel Creeks were preparing to fly into the Wichita Mountains. General Maxey has got De Morse's Twenty-ninth Texas Cavalry, Martin's Fifth Texas Partisan Rangers, Bass' Twentieth Cavalry, Scanland's and Gillett's battalions cavalry, besides two full batteries of 6 and 12 pounder brass and three howitzer. The two batteries have just been received and inclose two rifled guns. He has of Indian troops, Colonel Watie, First and Second Cherokee; what is left of the Second Creek Regiment (which amounts to little). There are two Chactaw regiments, if they do not slough off at this time, which is probable, and Colonel Jumper's regiment, which consisted of the Chickasaw and Seminole battalions, but was broken to pieces in the late battle. In addition to this, General Maxey is conscripting every man on Red River. As an offset, I am happy to be able to say that all the Canadian Valley and it tributaries are clear of rebels. I shall sweep out the upper Seminole country as I return. I shall sheave no subsistence for a rebel army, or forage, so that all it supplies must come from Red River in any movement toward the Arkansas, the stretch being 180 miles. The rebel Indians are entirely disheartened and discouraged. General Maxey urged that they remain to raise a crop, promising to place his force between the Canadian and Fort Gibson, and that they should be protected. His utter failure to do so will throw a damper on the efforts he has made to reorganize.

It has rained a great deal in the past two days. I expect the many streams in this county to be filled soon, and, of course, shall records them to my base before the rise. General Maxey has either to content himself with defending North Texas, in which case he will lose his Indiana, allies, or recover the prestige which he had lost by our recent successes in an attack on us on the Arkansas River, which he must do under great difficulties, and which i should much prefer that he would undertake at this season of the year, under all circumstances.

While I could not accomplish all I would have done had I been supported by Colonel Moonlight's command, and able to enter Northern Texas, still the result, in view of the condition and temper of the rebel Indians, is, I think, highly satisfactory, and will materially reduce their power to plant a force of these rebel Indians on the Arkansas River the coming spring.

I have the honor to remain, very respectfully,

WM. A. PHILLIPS,

Colonel, Commanding.

Major-General CURTIS,

Commanding Department of Kansas.