HEADQUARTERS THIRD DIVISION, CAVALRY CORPS, February 16, 1864.

Captain E. B. PARSONS,
Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Cavalry Corps:

CAPTAIN; In compliance with orders from headquarters Cavalry Corps, I have the honor to report that on the morning of the 12th instant I proceeded to Washington City and reported to the President of the United States, as directed in an order dated headquarters Cavalry Corps, February 12, 1864.

By direction of the President I afterward reported to the honorable Secretary of War and submitted, at his request, the following plan as, in my opinion, the most practicable to accomplish the double purpose of distributing the President's amnesty proclamation to the rebel command in our front, and to the inhabitants of Virginia in the various counties about Richmond; as also to destroy, as far as practicable, the enemy's communications, and attempt the release of our prisoners at Richmond.

Plan. -I propose, with a force of not less than 4,000 cavalry and six guns, to cross the Rapidan River at Ely's Ford and proceed to Spotsylvania Court-House, from that point to send a sufficient force of cavalry to destroy the Virginia Central Railroad at or near Frederick's Hill, to prevent infantry re-enforcements being sent from Lee's army, scouts having been sent to cut the telegraph on crossing the Rapidan River; also to send a force to destroy the Fredericksburg railroad at or near Guiney's Station, the telegraph on this road having also been previously destroyed. These parties, and others that it may be found necessary to detach, will scatter the proclamation along the line of march. With the main force I propose to move to Carmel Church and cross the North Anna River near that point, destroy the railroad bridge 3 miles below, and proceed to Hanover Junction, unless the force stationed there is found to be too large, in which case I will avoid that point. The force sent to Guiney's Station will proceed to Goochland Court-House, destroy the canal, cross the James River, proceed down the south bank., destroy the arsenal at Bellona; also the Danville and Richmond and Petersburg and Richmond Railroads, this force afterward to act as circumstances may require. From Hanover Junction I will proceed down the Brook pike between the two railroads, cross the brook and move on Richmond, and if possible, in conjunction with troops sent from the direction of West Point, make an attempt to release our prisoners. Should this be found impossible the command can return by way of Fredericksburg, or seek temporary safety at West Point. The command will need but five days' rations and one of forage; no wagons.

From the information I have but lately received, and from my thorough knowledge of the country, I am satisfied that this plan can be safely and successfully carried out.

Respectfully submitted.

J. KILPATRICK,

Brigadier-General of Volunteers.