GENERAL ORDERS,
 HDQRS. DEPT. OF THE MISSOURI, Numbers 19. Saint Louis, Mo., January 30, 1864.

I. The following extract from General Orders, Numbers 28, War Department, current series, is published for the information of those concerned:

GENERAL ORDERS,
 WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE, Numbers 28. Washington, D. C., January 22, 1864.

By direction of the President of the United States, Major General W. S Rosecrans, U. S. Volunteers, is appointed to the command of the Department of the Missouri.

* * * * * * *

By order of the Secretary of War:

E. D. TOWNSEND,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

II. In compliance with the above order, I assume command of this department.

III. The officers of the department staff, excepting General Schofield's personal aides and Major J. A. Campbell, assistant adjutant-general, will continue as herefore until further orders.

IV. The general orders and regulations now in force will continue to govern until altered or revoked.

V. Major Frank S. Bond, senior aide-de-camp; Captain J. P. Drouilard, additional aide-de-camp, and Captain R. S. Thomas, aide-de-camp, are announced as aides to the general commanding.

VI. In relieving General Schofield, who, in assuming the ardors duties connected with this command, relinquished high prospects of a brilliant career as commander of Thomas' old division in the then opening campaign of the Army of the Cumberland, I tender him my compliments for the admirable order in which I have found the official business and archives of this department, and my bestwishes, as well as hopes, that in his new field of duty he may reap that success which his solid merits, good sense, and honest devotion to duty and his country so well deserve.

VII. While commander here, I sincerely trust I shall receive the honest, firm, and united support of all true national and Union men of this department, without regard to politics, creed, or party, in my endeavors to maintain law and re-establish peace and cicero prosperity throughout its limits. The past should be remembered only for the lessons it teaches, while our energies should be directed to the problem of assuring our future, based firmly on the grandeur of our position, and on the true principles of humanity and progress to universal freedom, secured by just laws.

W. S. ROSECRANS,

Major-General, Commanding.