HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF WESTERN ARIZONA,
Tucson, Ariz. Ter., September 18, 1862.

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM, U. S. Army,

Assistant Adjutant-General, San Francisco, Cal.:

SIR: I have to report that the communication with the troops under General Carleton is yet suspended. I received no express since my last report to you, thus making my latest dates from General Carleton the 4th of August. I cannot on any reasonable or satisfactory hypothesis account for the suspension of communication and why trains have not returned for subsistence. The general has not given my any instructions in regard to such a contingency. He intended to return about thirty wagons, as soon as unloaded, with forage, and I expected them to return from Mesilla, and some even from San Simon. I inclose a report* of means of transportation in possession of Captain Davis, chief of transportation. It will show that only six wagons and teams are here for replacing broken-down wagons and animals. Instead of this number of wagons and mules, General Carleton went off with the impresson that there were 200 mules, and wagons enough to use them in. I cannot well see how this miscalculation occured. All the trains sent to the Rio Grande he was aware of. Every commander of detachments had a list supplied of his transportation. The general could have known the exact state of the case before he left; he was in daily consultation with his chief of transportation, had his chief quartermaster with him, and certainly as soon as I was called upon to send forward 200 mules I undeceived him, and had a clear statement of the means of transportation sent to him, but I have no instructions how to act as yet. The inclosed extracts* of several letters written to General Carleton, through his acting assistant adjutant-general, will show you how much I am in the dark as respects this column, how I am placed in regard to receiving supplies from Fort Yuma, and the uncertainty in which I am in regard to what is in advance as well is in advance as well as in rear. Supplies for this Territory should not be mixed up with those for Fort Yuma, So long as they are, there will be delay, confusion, adn dissatisfaction, especially so long as the commander of that post ranks the commander of this district.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

D. FERGUSSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding.