OFFICE OF DEPUTY PROVOST-MARSHAL, Paris, Monroe County, Mo., April 14, 1864.

Brigadier General C. B. FISK,

Commanding District of North Missouri, Saint Joseph, Mo.:

GENERAL: There has been for about two months a detachment of 10 men of the Ninth Missouri State Militia Cavalry at our town, sent there as a guard to the assistant provost-marshal appointed for the enlistment of negroes in our county. The appointment of the assistant provost-marshal of this county has been vacated by special order from office of provost-marshal-general. Since his removal some 6 or 7 recruits have come in, and were escorted to the office of district provost-marshal by the sergeant commanding detachment, and I have no doubt that other recruits will be coming in from time to time, provided there is any one here to receive them. I am here on duty as deputy provost-marshal under the conscription act of Congress, and have been since August, 1863, and have frequently need for a guard in the execution of orders for the arrest of deserters, &c.

There are no troops nearer us than Mexico, and I should be very glad if you would signify a willingness for this detachment to remain here. They are a very quiet and orderly squad, and I believe their presence is beneficial to our community, which is, as you are perhaps aware, about nine-tenths secessionists, and is likewise a great harboring place for returned rebels, horse thieves, and other criminals. I shall further take the liberty of stating to you that under General Schofield's General Orders, Numbers 86, arms were returned or distributed to all in our county without any regard to present or former status, and there is not a man in Monroe County, no matter how vile a rebel he has been, or is still, but what has or can have any arms he may choose. I repeat again that there is no restriction placed upon any man in Monroe County in regard to carrying fire-arms. There are hundreds of young men, most of whom were directly or indirectly connected with the rebellion, whom are now carrying revolvers under their coats. Some of them have permits from General Schofield both to carry arms and buy ammunition when and where they choose.

Will these permits be good under General Rosecrans' general orders regulating sale of arms and ammunition? They think they will and intend to act accordingly. Now, it does seem to me that (and it is the feeling of all the Union men of the county) there should be some distinction between men who have been rebels so long as they could safely be and those who were friends of the Government through all our troubles. We believed Schofield's order contemplated that there should be. But such is not the case, and all are treated alike in this respect. I only allude to this thing because I think it my duty as an officer of the U. S. Government to do so, but my duties as deputy provost-marshal do not require me to take official notice of them; but do hope the time will come when traitors shall cease to be entitled to all the privileges allowed loyal men, and our loyal people hope so, and God grant we may not be disappointed. The squad of the Missouri State Militia is now here, and have subsistence for balance of present month. Should you think the good of the service would be promoted by their continuation at this place please let me hear from you at your earliest convenience.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

W. E. FOWKES,

Deputy Provost-Marshal, Monroe County.