Captain GEORGE B. CURREY,

First Oregon Cavalry, Fort Walla Walla., Wash., Ter.:

SIR: Representations have been made by the Indian agent at the Umatilla Indian Reservation, and confirmed by the superintendent of Indian affairs for Oregon, now here, that a band of Indians belonging to the Cayuse tribe have by force of arms driven white settlers from their farms on the Grande Ronde Prairie, claiming ownership to the lands. The Indian Department shows evidence of treaty by the Government for this section of country, and indisputable right on the part of the United States to it. Orders, Numbers 161, from these headquarters directing the force under your command to proceed to Grande Ronde are issued at the request of gentlemen above named. I inclose you a copy of the communication* of Mr. Barnhart and Mr. Rector for your guidance. You will use all dispatch on the march to the point at which these Indians are supposed to be, and after carefully collecting all the information possible, arrest such of the leaders as were engaged in the attack upon the white settleres and bring them at once to this post. Do not encumber yourself with more than four or five of the principal men, and then only after the most satisfactory proof of their actual engagement in the affair. Alexander McKay will be taken with you as guide and interpreter, and as he is highly recommended by Agent Barnhart, you will take his advice as to the route to pursue, and the persons to consult in Grande Ronde Valley capable of giving you information in your search for the disaffected Indians. The camp equipage directed to be turned over to you by Lieutenant Hillyer will be sufficient for the full detachment of twenty men intended to remain at the Umatilla Reservation until 1st of November. This will be left at the reserve in charge of the sergeant. After leaving the detachment of ten men at Umatilla Reservation you will proceed with the remaining twenty men for the purpose above indicated, and on returning to this post detach nine others with one corporal as a re-enforcement on the reservation. The subsistence taken with you is to be used mainly on the reservation by the force to be employed there, and you will take with you beyond that point not more than is necessary for the twenty men that march with you to Grande Ronde. It is expected that not more than fourteen days will be required for the purpose indicated, and you will use all diligence in accomplishing the object desired, and return to this post on or before the 24th instant. Very much is of necessity left to your own discretion and judgment in carrying out these instructions, and it is enjoined upon you prudently and carefully to exercise the responsibility intrusted.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JUSTUS STEINBERGER,

Colonel First Washington Territory Infantry, Commanding.