FEBRUARY 29 - MARCH 13, 1864. - Expedition from Rolla, Mo., to Batesville, Ark.

Report of Colonel William D. Wood, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry.

HDQRS. ELEVENTH CAVALRY, MISSOURI VOLUNTEERS,
Camp Steele, March 15, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to report, for the information of the colonel commanding the district, that, in obedience to Special Orders, Numbers 40, headquarters Department of the Missouri, I ordered Squadrons A and M to proceed from Saint Louis to Rolla on the morning of the 15th ultimo, per Pacific Railroad, where I and my staff joined them on the 17th, and was joined on the 18th by Squadrons B, C, E, and G, commanded by Major L. W. Brown, which had for some time been serving in District of Southwest Missouri. As this detachment was in need of many supplies, both of ordnance and camp and garrison equipage, I deemed it advisable to remain there a few days till the necessary supplies could be obtained. Meanwhile I turned the occasion to account by putting my command in a more efficient state of discipline and drill, and by sending a quantity of forage to Houston. On the afternoon of the 29th ultimo I ordered tents struck and moved 5 miles south of Rolla, and camped on Little Beaver. On March 1, I moved 13 miles and camped by the side of a fine spring. Roads were bad and teams heavily loaded. On the morn ing of the 2nd, moved out early; weather fine, and some little improvement on the roads and country; no forage could be obtained; camped at Thomas Reid's, close to a fine spring, having marched 16 miles. On the 3rd, reached Arthur's Creek, marching 16 miles; no forage on the route; country very broken, barren, and destitute. Remained here one day to enable my quartermaster to repack his wagons, rest his teams, and turn in a quantity of tents which my limited transportation would not allow of bringing. Moved early on the morning of the 5th; reached Elk River at 2.30 p. m. and camped, marching 20 miles; good water; no forage could be found. 6th. - Marched 28 miles to-day; camped on Black Pond, in Howell County; country still very hilly and broken; no forage. 7th. - Marched 16 miles to-day and camped in West Plains, county seat of Howell County; good water and plenty of fuel, but no forage could be found in the country. 8th. - Moved 30 miles to-day and camped at South Fork of Spring River, Fulton County, Ark.; roads better; country less broken and hilly, but presenting an unbroken field of desolation and ruin; houses and fences burned up and inhabitants fled the country; no forage or articles of subsistence could be obtained. 9th. - Marched 18 miles to-day. The rain of the afternoon rendered the roads very heavy, and trains were slow in getting up; camped on South Fork of Spring River. As yet no reliable intelligence had been received of the presence of the enemy in the vicinity of my route, though I kept out flankers on each side and scoured the country well for several miles; obtained a small quantity of forage. 10th. - Moved 8 miles to-day, and camped close to Stephen's farm, in Izard County; here I obtained about 200 bushels of corn, a small quantity of sheaf oats and fodder. In the morning, learning of the existence of a gang of bushwhackers, I sent Lieutenant Thomas with 20 men of Company E, with instructions, if found, to either kill or capture them. Coming up with a small squad of them, he fired upon them and gave them chase, in the end killing 2, wounding 1, and capturing a fourth; 1 of those killed was a negro desperado known as Wildwood Jack. 11th. - Marched 8 miles to-day; sent out scouting and foraging parties, and thoroughly scoured the country on each side of the road a distance of 5 or 6 miles, but without any particular beneficial results; obtained but little forage and no definite information as to the whereabouts of the enemy. 12th. - Marched 15 miles to-day, keeping on the Wild Haws road; sent foraging parties out on either side; secured enough for present necessities, though found no considerable quantities. My camp was now within 7 miles of Batesville. Plenty of water. 13th. - Arrived in Batesville at 11.30 a. m.

May I add in conclusion that the whole of this march, a distance of over 200 miles, was effected without a material loss, and that, too, having forage to transport more than three-fourths the distance. I adhered strictly to the policy of allowing citizens a fair remuneration for any article of forage or subsistence taken on the route, and those of doubtful loyalty to report here and satisfy the authorities before settlement would be rendered.

In conclusion, permit me to acknowledge the earnest and hearty co-operation of both the officers and men of my command in aiding me to carry out all orders and instructions; all, from the highest to the lowest, did their duty as soldiers should.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

[WM. D. WOOD,]

Colonel, Commanding Regiment.