HEADQUARTERS,
Fort Walla Walla, Wash. Ter. August 23, 1862.

COLONEL: In obedience to Orders, Numbers 161, dated at this place, August 9, 1862, on the morning of the 10th instant I started for the Umatilla Indian Reservation and Grande Ronde Prairie, with a detachment of thirty enlisted men of Company E, First Cavalry Oregon Volunteers. Arrived at the Umatilla Indian Reservation, Oregon, on the 11th instant, and in compliance with paragraph III, Orders, Numbers 161, I detailed Sergeant Ammons and ten men to relieve Lieutenant Hillyer and his detachment of California volunteers on detached duty at that place. On the morning of the 12th, with the remainder of the detachment, I set out at sunrise for Grande Ronde Prairie, with your writteno carefully inquire into and arrest the leaders in the late attack upon the white settlers. Encamped for the night on Grande Ronde River. Distance from agency, forty miles. Left camp at sunrise on the morning of the 13th; traveled eight miles to settlements. Remained several hours, making inquiry among the settlers concerning the recent conduct of the Indians in that vicinity. From the settlers I learned that a certain Indian, now known among the whites as the Dreamer but formerly known as the Big Talk on Four Mountains, had staked off a region of country of many milesin extent situated in the northern portion of Grande Ronde Prairie, claiming the same as his, and denying that the treaty between the whites and Indians affected his rights to the same in the least. I further found that this same Indian and his band had, by threatening to kill all the whites who had or would settle within the lines he had set up, caused quite a number of settlers to abandon the claims-all I believe within the boundaries claimed by the Dreamer. The settlers narrated several instances wherein the Dreamer, Wainicut-hi-hi, and a tall young Indian rode up to settlers and gave them until the following day to leave in, or they would kill them. Becoming well satisfied that the Dreamer and two or three of his accomplices were the chief instruments of all the disturbance in that locality, and learning that his lodge was not more than six hours' ride from me, I resolved to make a night march upon him. Moving from the settlement about eight miles I camped as for the night, but at moonrise I mounted my men and rode on, and after a dashing ride of four hours and the satisfaction of surrounding the Dreamer and his accomplice, Wainicut-hi-hi. As soon as the arrangements were completed to keep them safely in their lodge until morning I caused them to be aroused, and informed them of the object of my coming. I told them that night, as I repeated many times on the following morning, that I did not come to hurt them, but go with them to see the commander of this post; that the commander desired to have a talk with him concerning the difficulties he and the white men had got into. At daylight I awoke the Indians, desired them to send for their horses, as I was anxious to make an early start back to the fort. Upon this they sent out a boy, telling me the boy would bring in the horses. They boy returned after about a half or three-quarters of an hour without the horses. I again urged upon them to have their horses brought in without delay. Another young Indian was sent out, as they told me, for horses. He returned in about an hour, bringing with him four or five other Indians. By this time some fifteen or twenty Indian men had gathered from the neighboring lodges. I again urged the Indians to get readyto start, and if they would not send and get their horses they would have to walk. At this the Dreamer became excited in his manner and told me if the commander desired to see him that he must come there; that that was his country, and the commander must come there and see him. This put a finale to further talk. I ordered the men to secure and tie the Dreamer and his accomplice, at the sme time handing a rope to one of the men. At this both Indians sprang up and seized their arms, which they had hitherto concealed intheir blankets. The Dreamer leveled his piece at me, but a ball from my revolver striking him in the breast shook his nerves so that he missed. Both Indians were killed in the tent. While this was going on the Indians who had gathered in, as I supposed, as mere spectators, fired upon my men, who were drawn up in line in front of the lodge. My men returned the fire upon the Indians, killing 2 Indians and 1 horse. The Indians then fled to the brush excepting one old Indian with whom I conversed telling him the whites did not want to make war upon the Indians, and they must all go back to the reserve. From Mr. White, chief farmer on the Umatilla Indian Agency, I learned that the Dreamer and his band have persistently refused for several months to go upon the reserve, refusing all the while to acknowledge his treaty obligations. From the Dreamer's lodge by easy marches I returned, making inquiry and sent out one scout to learn the disposition of the Indians, and from all I could learn I believe things are all quieRonde Valley. I arrived here last evening with twenty-five men and horses, and remain.

Yours, very respectfully,

GEO. B. CURREY,

Captain, First Cavalry Oregon Volunteers, Commanding Detachment.

Colonel STEINBERGER,

Commanding Fort Walla Walla, Wash. Ter.