HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF ARKANSAS, &C.,
Little Rock, April 12, 1864.

Major General FREDERICK STEELE:

GENERAL: Messengers with dispatches from you dated the 7th instant arrived yesterday evening at 4 o'clock. Your directions concerning the forwarding of supplies have been and are being complied with as fast as possible. Upon consultation with General Kimball it was thought best to start the train from Pine Bluff, and rendered almost imperatively so from the fact that Captain Cantine reported large amounts of stores, such as were ordered, had been shipped to Pine Bluff in anticipation of that place being made your base of supplies, and that there was not a sufficient amount of stores at Little Rock to load the teams as required. I gave Captain Manly orders to take from the transportation at this place all that he required, and directed him to decide what amount should remain behind. He reported at 12 o'clock yesterday that his entire train, consisting of 123 wagons, was on the road to Pine Bluff.

The steamer Chippewa is loaded with quartermaster's stores and ammunition, and left for Pine Bluff at-to-day and will reach that place some time to-morrow morning. The wagon train will arrive to-morrow night and will begin to load immediately. The wagons should all be loaded and on the road at 12 o'clock on the 14th. Lieutenant-Colonel Mackey, of the Thirty-third Iowa, is in command of the escort, consisting of something over 600 men belonging to the regiments of General Salomon's division (left behind, and that have arrived since the troops left), and about 250 dismounted cavalry belonging to regiment to regiments in General Carr's division. Colonel Clayton is ordered to furnish from 100 to 200 cavalry to accompany Colonel Mackey; also to turn over to the train every wagon he can possibly spare, and if necessary to press teams from the country in the vicinity of Pine Bluff. I have done and will do everything I possibly can to hurry the supplies forward.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

W. D. GREEN,

Assistant Adjutant-General.