Numbers 10. Report of Colonel Franklin Campbell, Eighty- first Illinois Infantry.

HDQRS. EIGHTY- FIRST Illinois VOLUNTEER INFANTRY,
Saint Charles, Ark., August 10, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to transmit, in compliance with your request, my part taken in the engagement at Guntown, Miss., June 10, 1864, as per following report:

We broke camp about 7 a. m. on the morning of the 10th, and almost immediately took up our line of march. I advanced until about 10 a. m., when I came within hearing of our advance cavalry and artillery skirmishing with the enemy. The day had become intensely hot. About 10 a. m. orders came from the front to rush the men forward, as an advantageous position had been gained, which it was important to hold. I marched the men as rapidly as possible. Very soon orders came to double- quick the men, as moments were everything. It was under these circumstances, orders upon orders, that I hurried and urged the men forward a distance of four miles under a hot sun to the field of battle. I was forced to put the regiment in line in an open space of ground without a leaf of shade, when numbers of them fell down exhausted from over-exertion under the terrible heat. On my right was some cavalry, and, it is said, one infantry regiment (I had not time to ascertain); on the left the Ninety- fifth Illinois. I almost immediately sent my skirmishers forward after forming in line. They had advanced but a few yards when they came in collision with the main force of the enemy. The ground to my right and front was heavy timber with thick undergrowth- the left of the Ninety- fifth Illinois- a ridge of land running at an acute angle with the line of battle, on which a portion of the enemy lay within easy range. The action almost immediately commenced. It was now between the hours of 12 m. and 1 p. m. The fighting was terrific. The brave men under my command repulsed charge after charge of the enemy, and maintained their position with but little change until the enemy were driven back from our front, with the exception of a few sharpshooters sheltered behind logs and trees. It was in the second charge of the enemy on the right wing that the color bearer of the opposing regiment was shot down and the colors captured by a private in Company B, this regiment. Early in the acting the line on the right gave way, thus allowing the enemy to flank us; the flank firing from the right an high ground on our left became very galling. The companies on our right wing kept the enemy's flankers somewhat in check, and we held our position until every cartridge in the regiment had been expended, including those taken from the wounded and dead. I had dispatched Adjt. J. J. Fitzgerrell for ammunition, but he had not returned. It was while in this position, the men completely exhausted, out of ammunition, the enemy on the right, and a heavy enfilading fire on the left, that I ordered the regiment to fall back. This we did until we came in line with the artillery, some 300 yards in rear of our first position, where, becoming exhausted from overheat and previous ill health, I turned over my command to Lieutenant Colonel A. W. Rogers, Eighty- first Illinois Volunteers.

F. CAMPBELL,

Colonel Eighty- first Illinois Volunteer Infantry.