In accordance with the above instructions, I left my camp at Stevensburg at 7 o'clock Sunday evening, February 28, with 2,375 men and Captain Ranson's battery U. S. Horse Artillery (six pieces), and detachments from the First and Second Cavalry Divisions, under Majors Hall and Taylor, in all 3,582 strong.

My advance, consisting of 460 men, under Colonel Dahlgren, reached Ely's Ford at 11 p. m., crossed, surprised, and captured the enemy's picket, consisting of 2 officers and 14 men. Colonel Dahlgren was then ordered to move rapidly forward, by way of Spotsylvania Court-House, to Frederick's Hall, on the James River, cross the river, move down the opposite bank, and, if possible, be in position to seize the main bridge that led to the city of Richmond, at 10 o'clock Tuesday, March 1. A small force, under Captain Boice, Fifth New York Cavalry, was sent to destroy the Fredericksburg railroad below Guiney's Station, the telegraph having been destroyed on both roads by scouts during the night. I pressed rapidly forward with the main column, passed Spotsylvania Court-House at daylight, reached and destroyed Beaver Dam Station at 1 p. m., and after destroying the road to a considerable extent, moved rapidly forward in the direction of Richmond, and went into camp early in the evening 9 miles from Ground Squirrel Bridge, over the South Anna.

I moved at 1 a. m. Tuesday morning, intending to cross the South Anna at Ground Squirrel Bridge, move down the Ridge road, and attack Richmond west of the Brook pike. My guide (I think through ignorance), instead of directing the column to the bridge mentioned, led it in the direction of Ashaland, where we came upon the infantry pickets of the enemy. From prisoners I learned that a force of 2,000 infantry and six pieces of artillery was stationed near the railroad bridge above Ashland.

I directed Major Hall, with 450 men of the First Division, to drive in the enemy's pickets and make a determined attack in order to cover the movements of the main column. I struck across the country to the South Anna and crossed at a point 3 miles about Ashland at daylight, Tuesday morning. The attack of Major Hall totally deceived the enemy as to the movements of the main column, which passed on, crossed the railroad 7 miles below Ashland, tore up a considerable portion of the track, destroyed a culvert, passed on and reached the Brook pike at a point 5 miles form Richmond at 10 a. m. The enemy's artillery, engaged with Major Hall, could be distinctly heard in my rear. Rightly supposing that the enemy would send all his available [force] in the immediate vicinity in the direction of the firing, in order to protect the bridge at that point, and learning from citizens and negroes who came from Richmond that morning that no attack was expected upon the city, and that only a small force occupied the works in front on the Brook pike, I moved forward, crossed the brook, surprised and captured the picket and a small force of infantry in the rifle-pits beyond. The enemy now sent forward troops to oppose my further progress, but they were easily driven back until a point was reached about 1 mile from the city. Here a considerable force of infantry with artillery effectually checked my advance. It was now 1 p. m. I ordered up my entire force, and after thoroughly examining the enemy's position, determined to attack, believing that if they were citizen soldiers I could enter the city.

Brigadier-General Davis had the advance. The Fifth New York Cavalry was] dismounted and sent forward as skirmishers, and 500 men under [Major Patton] in a body, dismounted, followed closely in rear of the skirmishers to attack and carry if possible a small earth-work on the left of and a barricade that the enemy were then placing in the road. The enemy was finally forced back until a position was gained for the use of my artillery, which was brought up and opened upon the enemy, now occupying a position just outside the city.

I brought up re-enforcements, strengthened and extended my line of skirmishers to the right as far as the plank road, and was about to order an advance of the whole line, when I discovered that the enemy was rapidly receiving re-enforcements, not only of infantry but artillery. Feeling confident that Dahlgren had failed to cross the river, and that an attempt to enter the city at that point would but end in a bloody failure, I reluctantly withdrew my command at dark, crossed the Meadow Bridge, over the Chickahominy, and, after destroying the bridges on the Virginia Central Railroad, went into camp near Mechanicsville.

Colonel Dahlgren, having failed to cross the James River, moved rapidly down the canal, destroying viaducts and locks, and engaged the enemy at 4 o'clock on the plank road a few miles from Richmond, and at dark, when I withdrew with the intention of joining the main force.

In the various attacks upon the city, which commenced at 12 m. and continued until dark, we lost upward of 60 men in killed and wounded. The enemy is known to have lost a considerable number in killed and wounded, and we took prisoners upwards of 200. By scouts and spies I ascertained that the entire available force of the enemy in and about the city had been concentrated during the day on the Brook pike and plank road, where the various attacks had been made, and that no force of the enemy was on the road from Mechanicsville to the city. It was now 10 p. m. I at once determined to make another attempt to enter the city. Lieutenant-Colonel Preston, of the First Vermont, and Major Taylor, of the First Maine, were selected to lead two separate detachments of 500 men in on the road from Mechanicsville, which with the artillery and the remaining portion of my command I would hold the bridge over the Chickahominy and cover their retreat with the prisoners if successful. These two determined and daring officers had but just commenced to move when Colonel Sawyer, Commanding Second Brigade, reported that his pickets had been driven in on the road from the direction of Hanover Court-House. A few moments later he sent me word that the enemy was advancing in force and rapidly driving in his people. I sent orders for him to throw out a strong line of skirmishers, and, if possible, charge the enemy and drive him back, as I intended to make this last effort to release our prisoners. Heavy musketry and carbine firing could now be heard, and a moment later the enemy opened with a battery of artillery. I was forced to recall my troops to resist this attack, which now became serious. The enemy charged and drove back the Seventh Michigan, and considerable confusion ensued. The night was intensely dark, cold, and stormy. The command was moved out on the road toward Old Church and placed into position, and, after considerable hard fighting, with a loss of 2 officers, upwards of 50 men, and 100 horses, repulsed the enemy and forced him back on the road toward Hanover Court-House. Not knowing the strength of the enemy, I abandoned all further ideas of releasing our prisoners, and at 1 a. m. moved to the intersection fo the roads from Mechanicsville to Old Church, and from Hanover Court-House to Bottom's Bridge. Here we went into camp.

At daylight the enemy attacked my pickets, but were easily repulsed. At 8 a. m. the command moved to Old Church, 12 miles from Hanover Court-House, and here took up a good position and remained until 1 p. m. Wednesday, hoping that Dahlgren might come in. The enemy charged my rear guard at this point, but were gallantly charged in return by the First Maine, and driven back a considerable distance, with a loss of many prisoners. This is the last I saw of the enemy. From the prisoners I learned that they belonged to Hampton's division, and that it was he who attacked me the night before; that he had with him a large force of mounted infantry and cavalry and four pieces of artillery, and that he had retired to Hanover Junction, expecting me to move in that direction.

Taking this fact into consideration, and the condition of my command, I decided to move by the nearest route to General Butler's lines at New Kent Court-House. The command went into camp near Tunstall's Station Wednesday evening. Here captain Mitchell, with upward of 300 officers and men belonging to Colonel Dahlgren's party, joined me. Captain Mitchell reported that Colonel Dahlgren's and Major Cooke with about 100 men became separated from the main portion of his command during the night, since which time he had heard nothing of the colonel or his party.

We moved early Thursday morning to New Kent Court-House, where we were met by Colonel Spear and a considerable force of infantry and cavalry, sent out by Major-General Butler to assist us. Colonel Dahlgren, after becoming separated from the main portion of his command, crossed the Pamunkey at hanovertown and the Mattapony at Aylett's. Here he defeated a superior force of the enemy, captured nearly as many prisoners as he had men, and gallantry fought his way to a point within 3 miles of King and Queen Court-House, where he was ambushed, fired upon, and killed, and his little party of brave men, then under command of the gallant Lieutenant-Colonel [Major] Cooke, surrounded by a large force of citizens and regular soldiers, and all save 21 were taken prisoners. These latter abandoned their horses and made their way on foot to Gloucester Point.

The outrageous treatment of the remains of Colonel Dahlgren and the cruel and barbarous manner in which is men were hunted down and captured by citizens and soldiers with dogs determined me to visit the neighborhood of King and Queen Court-House with a sufficient force to punish those who had been engaged in the murder of Colonel Dahlgren and the captured of his men. With about 2,000 cavalry, three regiments of infantry, and a battery of artillery, under command of Brigadier-General Wistar, we marched to Plymount, near King and Queen Court-House, from which point Colonel Onderdonk, of the First New York Mounted Rifles, pushed forward to King and Queen Court-House and Carlton's Store, drove the enemy, some 1,200 strong, from his camp, destroyed the camp, and pursued him upward of 10 miles, killing and wounding a large amount of rebel stores collected at King and Queen Court-House the command returned to camp without loss of a man.

It is impossible to estimate the amount of property destroyed and damage done to the enemy during this raid. The Virginia Central Railroad was destroyed to a considerable extent near Frederick's Hall, at Beaver Dam, as well as the depot and stores of all kinds collected at this point. Culverts were destroyed and tracks torn up above and below Ashland, and the railroad bridges over the Chickahominy. Several viaducts and locks were destroyed on the canal at different points for a distance of 30 miles above Richmond. Eight large mills along the James River were burned, filled with flour and grain belonging to the Confederate Government.

Several thousand of the President's amnesty proclamations were scattered throughout the entire country, and I am satisfied that if Colonel Dahlgren had not failed in crossing the river, which he did either through the ignorance or treachery of his guide, or had the enemy at Bottom's Bridge been forced to remain at that point by a threatened attack from the direction of Yorktown, I should have entered the rebel capital and released our prisoners.

The expedition failed in its great object, but through no fault of the officers and men accompanying it. All did their duty bravely, promptly, and well, and for which they deserve the highest praise.

I will forward at the earliest possible moment a correct statement of my entire loss of men, animals, and equipments, as well as a nominal list of the killed, wounded, and missing.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. KILPATRICK,

Brigadier-General of Volunteers.

Captain F. C. NEWHALL,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Cavalry Corps.