Captain R. S. SEABURY,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 20. Report of Lieutenant Colonel J. Albert Monroe, First Rhode Island Light Artillery, commanding Artillery Brigade.

HDQRS. ARTILLERY Brigadier, SECOND ARMY CORPS,
February 11, 1864.

COLONEL: I respectfully forward the following report of operations of the Artillery Brigade the 6th and 7th instant:

In accordance with circular dated February 6, 1864, three batteries of the brigade - Arnold's (Battery A, First Rhode Island Light Artillery), Thompson's (Battery C, Independent Pennsylvania Artillery), Rickett's (Battery F, First Pennsylvania Artillery), temporarily under the command of Lieutenant Spence - moved from camp and joined the column near the headquarters of the Third Division. Upon arriving near Morton's Ford, Arnold's and Thompson's batteries were placed in favorable positions on the left bank of the river and above the ford, and one section of Spence's battery (the other two sections being held in reserve) sent under the command of Lieutenant Mitchell about a mile below, where it was placed in position near Stringfellow's house by Lieutenant Roebling, aide-de-camp to the commanding general. About 4. 30 p. m. on the evening of the 6th Captain Arnold fired 42 shells into the enemy's works, with good effect.

On the morning of the 7th I arose at daybreak, and was surprised to find that the infantry had recrossed the river, not having been informed that the movement had taken place. Lieutenant Goddard was at once sent to withdraw the section near Stringfellow's house, but just as he arrived there the enemy's sharpshooters advanced to the bank, about 250 yards distant on the opposite side of the river, and opened an extremely sharp fire on the section, severely wounding 1 man, Private Frederick Batts. Lieutenant Mitchell, being unaware that the infantry had recrossed the river, mistook the enemy for our own men and allowed them to approach the river without withdrawing his section. At this time the regiment of infantry, which was there for the support of the section, was several hundred yards to the rear and out of supporting distance. Lieutenant Mitchell at once ordered the guns to be limbered to the rear, but the horses attacked to one of the limbers becoming unmanageable, ran away, causing some confusion. So sharp was the enemy's fire that it was impossible to withdraw the guns at once, but the infantry quickly advanced and the pieces were drawn to the rear under their cover, placed in a favorable position, and a few shells fired with effect. The batteries were not employed through the day, and at night returned to camp.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. ALBERT MORNOE,

Lieutenant-Colonel and Chief of Artillery.