BATESVILLE, ARK., January 23, 1864

Captain H. C. FILLEBROWN,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Batesville, Ark.:

CAPTAIN: In accordance with Special Orders, Numbers 10, headquarters District of Northeastern Arkansas, dated January 13, 1864, and letter of instructions of same date, I left Batesville about sundown of the 13th, in command of a detachment consisting of 75 men of the First Regiment Nebraska Cavalry with 2 commissioned [officers] of the same regiment and a detail of 50 men of the Eleventh Missouri, Cavalry Volunteers, under command of Lieutenant Merensky.

At a point 7 miles from Batesville I detached Lieutenant Merensky with his command, ordering him to proceed on the Hookram road until he arrived at Evening Shades. At that point he was to take the Hookram and Smithville [road] and push on to the latter-named place, making proper disposition of his force upon his arrival there so as to surround the village and capture such Confederates or others as he might find there. Having done this, he was to march out on Batesville and Smithville road and make a junction with the main command at 10 a.m. the next day. He carried out the first part of his instructions, but failed to join me. In his report he states that he surrounded the village and made a dash, but found no one there except the citizens. On his return he captured, after a severe chase, 6 prisoners, 5 horses, and several squirrel and shot guns. He reported also that one of his men had been reported sick and stopped at a farm-house on the road, and that two others of his men had remained to take care of him.

From the fact that there was no enemy in the immediate neighborhood, and the men not having reported or been heard from, I am of the opinion that they have deserted. Number of miles traveled by his command was 95. After detaching Lieutenant Merensky I pushed on to within a short distance of Smithville (2 miles), where I captured a so-called Captain Leddy and a man named Shaffner, his accomplice, at the house of a Mrs. McKnight. This man had in his charge a rebel mail from Saint Louis, Mo., together with a lot of medicines, clothing, gold lace, and buttons, all of which was, upon my return, turned over to the colonel commanding the district.

This Leddy was put in charge of the provost-marshal, Captain C. C. Allen. Pushing on down Strawberry Creek, I captured, at a point 2 miles distant from McKnight's, 2 men by the men of Massey, both of them belonging to the rebel service, one of them being a lieutenant. From this point I pushed on to Taylor's Mill, and from thence returned through Smithville, and stopped at a point 2 miles this side of the village, where I halted for an hour and fed my horses, having made a march of 50 miles. From this point I returned direct to Batesville, where I arrived at midnight of the 14th, having met with no further incidents. Distance traveled, 85 miles. I consider it my duty to state that the officers and men of my command behaved in a most admirable manner; no depredations were committed, and the officers were very efficient in maintaining discipline.

I remain, captain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

THOMAS J. MAJORS,

Captain Co. C, First Regiment Nebr. Cav., Commanding Expedition.