HDQRS. DISTRICT OF NORTHEASTERN ARKANSAS,
Batesville, Ark., February 10, 1864.

COLONEL: I have the honor to report that a scouting party of 100 men, consisting of 40 men First Regiment Nebraska Cavalry and 60 men Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, under command of Lieutenant-Colonel Stephens, while hunting a large band of guerrillas, ran into Colonel Freeman's regiment of 600 Confederate soldiers. Colonel Stephens had divided his force, sending Captain Majors, of the First Nebraska, with 40 men of his regiment in one direction and he was committed under the impression that Freeman had only about 100 men, but the colonel was immediately surrounded and fiercely attacked by overwhelming numbers. He charged, running the gauntlet for nearly twenty minutes through their forces, losing 6 men killed and 8 wounded off their horses, together with 8 captured by reason of their horses being shot from under them. Colonel Stephens succeeded in cutting his way through them, and estimates the enemy's loss at 22 killed and many wounded.

In the mean time Captain Majors, hearing the skirmish, hastened to the scene, but before reaching Colonel Stephens was also surrounded and attacked. He charged the enemy, killing 6 and capturing 6 others with their arms, horses, and equipments, as he rushed through them without the loss of a single man or horse. The enemy's forces consisted of Colonel Coleman's, Colonel Love's and Colonel Freeman's regiments. They were well armed and mounted; apparently had abundance of ammunition, as a running fight was kept up for a distance of 8 miles. The enemy are very numerous around me, and I am constantly at work among them. I am, however, hampered in my movements by being compelled to keep a sufficient force at this station to defend the stores we have on hand.

I ought to have another battalion of cavalry at the least, though I do not ask for more troops, as I feel amply able to whip the enemy should they molest me. If,however, I had more men I could scour the country and rid it of these pestiferous hybrids, who infest the swamps and mountains of this district.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. R. LIVINGSTON,

Colonel First Regiment Nebraska Cavalry, Commanding Dist.

Lieutenant Colonel O. D. GREENE,

Assistant Adjutant-General.