HEADQUARTERS HUMBOLDT MILITARY DISTRICT.

Fort Humboldt, March 7, 1863.

COLONEL: I have the honor to report to the general commanding the department that during the absence of the colonel commanding this district nothing of much importance has transpired. Detailed reports of each day's operations have been received from the following officers in command of scouting detachments, viz: Captains Theller, Short, and Flynn, and Lieutenants Smith, Gonnisson, and Campbell. These reports, together with that of a party under my own command, prove that the troops have zealously endeavored in the face of great difficulties to achieve success. The result, however, is very meager. Some 8 or 10 squaws and children and 1 buck taken in the Mattole region by the detachment from H Company. This detachment was in the mountains and absent from this post forty-one days, enduring great hardships. Captain Short, as well as Lieutenants Smith and Campbell (who releived the captain on the twenty-seventh day, his resignation having been accepted), deserve great credit for their perseverance under the circumstances. In fact, all the parties out during the past six weeks have suffered severely from the violent snow-storms which have prevailed. Many of our men have returned to the camps with frozen feet and exhausted by fatigue, and in many cases their shoes being torn from their feet, they attempted to protect them by wrapping pieces of their clothes about them. The officers in their reports testify to the unmurmuring endurance of these hardships by their commands, and I can attest to the same as regards my own party. We were led to hope that the winter season would be the most favorable for hunting Indians, but the experience of the past two months has proved that hope fallacious. The frequent violent storms in these mountains, and the consequent falling of snow covering all trails and signs, render it all but impossible to operate with any prospect of success. Two citizens brought to this post on the 22nd ultimo ten Indians from laqua Ranch, who had surrendered themselves their object being, probably, to secure comfortable winter quarters, knowing they could easily escape from Smith River Reservation in the spring. Since pay-day desetions from the different posts have been numerous. As far as heard from the aggregate is twenty-five, of which only eight have as yet been arrested. This result was anticipated as the great accumulation of pay enabled the men to procure outside aid. The pursuing parties from Fort Gaston have already in custody three citizens for aiding deserters to escape and we are on the track of others in this vicinity. There have been no recent outrages by Indians reported except the burning of two or three unoccupied buildings at Minor's on the Redwood near Fort Anderson. The colonel commanding the district arrived at this post to-day at about 3 p. m.

Very respectfully your obedient servant,

JAS. N. OLNEY,

Lieutenant Colonel Second Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, San Francisco.