Lieutenant-Colonel WALKER,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 4. Report of Brigadier General Alexander S. Webb, U. S. Army, commanding Second Division.

HDQRS. SECOND DIVISION, SECOND ARMY CORPS,
February 13, 1864.

COLONEL: I have the honor to report that this division left its camp at 8. 30 a. m. on the 6th instant, having been ready to march at 7 a. m. Proceeding to Morton's Ford, it was held in reserve, by order of Brigadier-General Caldwell, before and during the engagement of the Third Division with the enemy. At about 6 p. m. Major-General Warren directed that one brigade of this division should re-enforce Brigadier-General Hays. The First Brigade was detailed for this duty, and was posted on the right of Colonel Carroll's brigade, by about 6. 30 p. m., losing 2 men wounded in crossing the rough bridge built during the day. At 7 p. m. the remainder of the division was ordered over the Rapidan, and by 8 o'clock had been reported to Brigadier-General Hays by myself and posted to support his line. My own headquarters was established with General hays in the house on the left of his line. At about 10 p. m. Major-General Warren ordered that the picket-line should be relieved by this division, and the First Brigade, Colonel Baxter commanding, was directed to deploy to the front for this purpose, and to relieve the entire line. As it was very dark this movement required some two hours, and a part of General Hays' line (the pickets of General Owen's brigade) was not relieved by Colonel Baxter, since it was reported that the brigade would not cover the whole of the front. In accordance with the directions of the major-general commanding, I directed Colonel Baxter to relieve his whole line, gradually withdrawing his command to the other side of the river, and leaving but 75 men to keep up a semblance of a picket-line. At about 12 o'clock across the river. At 1. 15 it was reported to me that all were in and forced my semblance of a picket-line to retire in haste. The command returned to this camp on the night of Sunday, the 7th instant.

I have the honor to remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

ALEX. S. WEBB,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Volunteers, Commanding Division.