HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE MISSOURI,
Saint Louis, May 29, 1864

Major General E. R. S. CANBY,

Commanding West Miss., Div., Hdqrs. Natchez, Miss.:

GENERAL: That which I earnestly recommended in a letter to the War Department on the 10th of March, ultimo, and which was begun by ordering you to the command of Banks' and Steele's departments, has at last been completed by General Orders, Numbers 203, War Department, by which the West Mississippi Division is created, and this department made a portion thereof. I telegraphed on the 27th informing you of this fact, and promising a copy of our last tri-monthly, by an inspection of which you will see the available force, its character and how it is scattered over the State. You will have learned from General Steele that a large body of rebel cavalry has crossed the Arkansas, either to operate on his communications or make a raid into this department. The consequence of a raid here, with a formidable and well-organized cavalry force, cannot but be very serious, considering the feeble and widely scattered forces with which we would have to make head against it.

We have all our grand depots, our railroad bridges, and lines of communication to guard, while the enemy concentrated and organized, would be at liberty to strike any point they choose. It must not be overlooked that we owe much to the loyal people of this State, whose lives and property are likewise periled by the defenseless condition in which are left. We have also to take into consideration the malcontent, and disloyal elements in our midst, including a powerful armed secret organization of conspirators, who only wait an opportunity to rise and aid in the work of murder, arson, and rapine. Fearing the delay that may arise in hearing from you, I have reiterated these points in a telegram to the War Department of this date, asking that such orders and instructions be issued as the emergency may demand. Whatever I may think of the course pursued by the War Department toward me as an officer, I have no hesitation in assuring you of my cordial co-operation in the great work you have on hand for clearing the West Mississippi Division of rebels.

I am, very truly, yours,

W. S. ROSECRANS,

Major-General.