HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE MISSOURI,
Saint Louis, Mo., June 2, 1864.

Governor WILLARD P. HALL,

Washington, D. C.:

DEAR GOVERNOR: Inclosed is a copy of my letter* of May 8, and copies of the indorsements+ on some other communications referring to he case of the provisional regiments of Enrolled Militia of the State who have been called into service and have been serving the United States without provision for their payment. The remedy recommended is to permit them to be mustered into the service of the United States for one year from the 	1st day of November last. It may require legislation to render this legal. I beg to remind you that the Missouri State Militia, composed of the best material in the State, has been serving with the most imperfect and often worthless arms. They have all the disadvantages of the elective system for company officers and finding their own horses, and the nature of their duties, scouting in small parties, is adverse to instruction and discipline, so that while they are more expensive to the United States their service is more trying and laborious to the men, and they are far less powerful as a body than they would be with a volunteer organization, good arms, and mounted on Government horses.

To remedy these evils I have requested authority from the War Department, to convert them, as far as practicable, into U. S. volunteers, at such time, place, and in such manner as may be most prudent and beneficial to the service. I beg you will please obtain a decision on this request. I also spoke to you of the present condition of this department, in reference to the protection of the planting industry, as well as the lives of the loyal citizens over the State. The condition of our forces is such that should any serious raid be made by the rebel cavalry we should have to sacrifice all these objects to the more pressingly important ones of guarding our depots and railroad bridges. I think it would be a great pity to abandon the people now, in the midst of their agricultural labors, second in importance only to actual combat against the enemy. I would recommend as a wise precaution that you obtain authority to raise two regiments of infantry and four of cavalry to serve for at least six months, or as much longer as practicable, on the same condition as the 100-day men of other Western States.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

W. S. ROSECRANS,

Major-General.