HDQRS. SECOND CAVALRY CALIFORNIA VOLUNTEERSE,

Camp Douglas, Utah, November 28, 1862

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to report that agreeable to instructions of the colonel commanding the district, I left this camp on the night of the 20th instant and proceeded to Cache Valley, where I arrived about 11 p. m. on the 22d, a distance of 100 miles, where I was met by Mr. Van Orman, the uncle of the emigrant boy your ordered me to rescue from the Indians; he informed me that Chief Bear Hunter was encamped with thirty or fortyof his tribe, Shoshones, Snakes, and Bannocks, about two miles distant. I left the horses in the settlement called Providence in charge of a guard, and started about 1 o'clock for the Indian camp; the night was dark and cold, and we did not find the camp until the mornign of the 23d. I then divided my command into three parties under Captain Smith, Lieutenant Conrad, and myself, with instructions to surround the camp and close in upon them at daybreak. I found in a tenth tow squaws; the Indians had all left that night, as perceived that the fires in their huts were not extinguished. I then returned to where I had left the horses, at which place I arrived about 7 a. m. Captain Smith brought in one Indian, caught in trying to escape; I made a prisoner of him. About 8 o'clock a party of mounted Indians, I should think thirty or forty, armed with rifles, bows and arrows, made their appearance from a canon on a bench between the settlement and hills, about a mile from the settlement, and made a warlike display, such as shouting, riding in a circle, and all sorts of antics known only to their race. I immediately ordered my men to mount, divided them as before, sent Captain Smith to the right, Lieutenant Conrad to the left, and I took the center, driving the Indians into the canon; when I arrived a the mouth of the canon I halted for the purpose of reconnoitering just at thans opened fire upon Lieutenant Conrad; I then ordered my men to commence firing and to kill every Indian they could see; by this time the Indians had possession of the canon and hills on both sides. I found it would be impossible to enter the canon without exposing my men greatly. I therefore re-enforced Lieutenant Conrad on the left of the canon, with orders to take the hill on the left of the canon at all hazards. About the time the re-enforcements reported to him, Chief Bear Hunter made his appearance on a hilltop on the rihgt, with a flag of truce (as I was informed afterward); I at the time took it to be a warlike demonstration; a citizen who heard his halloing came up to me and told me that the chief said they did not want to fight any more. I then ordered my men to cease firing, and told him to say to the chief if they would surrender and come in I would not kill them, which terms they acceded to. Chief Bear Hunter, with twenty or more of his warriors, then came in. I took them into the settlement, took Bear Hunter and four others that I thought to be prominent Indians and examined them (through an interpreter) as to the whereabouts of the white boy, and ascertained that he had been sent away some days before. I told Bear Hunter to send some of his tribe and bring the boy to me; that I should hold the five as hostages until they delivered him to me. He dispatched three of his men, and they returned the next day about noon with the boy. I then released Bear Hunter and the four others. I killed 3 and wounded 1 Indian in the fight. I was told by Bear Hunter that an Indian known as Woeber Tom, alias Utah Tom, communicated the infromation of our approach. In relatiopn to the emigrant stock I was ordered to examine into and bring into camp, I could not find any such, and from the information I could gather I am of the opinion all or nearly all of the stock taken by the Indians last summer is now in the Humboldt country. I left Cache Valley on the morning of the 25th, and arrived at this camp on the afternoon of the 27th, without the loss or scratch of man or horse. It affords me great pleasure to report to the colonel commanding the good conduct of the command, and during the fight, which lasted about two hours, the officers and men behaved handsomely.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

EDWARD McGARRY,

Major, Second Cavalry California Volunteers.

Second Lieutenant THOMAS S. HARRIS,

Seifornia Volunteers,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, District of Utah.