HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF ARIZONA,
Mesilla, October 8, 1862.

Captain WILLIAM McCLEAVE,

First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding Camp Johnson:

The inclosed order+ relates to the movement of Company C, First Cavalry California Volunteers, and Company A, Third Artillery, to Fort Craig. Make up a train of twenty wagons and one water-tank to accompany them, and as soon as you have six days' full grain forage in camp, at twelve pounds for horses and nine pounds for mules, let them take up their line of march, crossing the river below and camping the first night in the vicinity of Fort Fillmore. Send a detachment with two, or as many wagons as may be necessary to carry ten days' rations for both companies, by way of this post, leaving your camp when they do, with the requisite provision returns half a day in advance. The remainder of the trail will carry company property (except the tents, which will be sent here by the provision wagons and turned in), all the ammunition belonging to the artillery, the six days' grain forage, and as much corn fodder as may be necessary for six days, at fourteen pounds per animal, if practicable. Keep me advised of the probable time when these companies will move, and I will endeavor to have the paymaster (expected here on the 13th instant) go down and pay them off. Send the extract of same order referring to Captain Pishon's company to Lieutenant Wardwell; also that for the latter officer. Instruct Lieutenant Wardwell to throw out a picket after Captain Pishon's return of three men daily from three to five miles below his camp, locating them at some prominent point. Direct him to observe the utmost watchfulness, as he will then be the extreme outpost between us and the enemy. If they do approach, their first efforts will undoubtedly be to steal his horses. This must be strictly guarded against. Stimulate Lieutenant Wardwell's precaution and zeal to prevent our being surprised.

I am, captain, your obedient servant,

J. R. WEST,

Colonel First Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding.