ENGINEER OFFICE,

Hilton Head, S. C., June 8, 1864.

GENERAL: I have the honor to submit the following list of various fortifications in this department, their location, and object:

NORTHERN DISTRICT.

Morris Island.

Batteries on north end, commanding the harbor, Fort Sumter, &c.:

First. Fort Putnam, Armament, three 100-pounder Parrotts, one 10-pounder columbiad, four 30-pounder Parrotts, two field pieces.

Second. Battery Chatfield, armament, one 300-pounder Parrott, two 100-pounder Parrotts, four 10-inch sea-coast mortars.

Third. Battery Seymour, armament, eight 10-inch sea-coast mortars.

Fourth. Water Battery, armament, two 10-inch columbiads.

Fifth. Battery Barton, armament, two 13-inch sea-coast mortars.

Sixth. Fort Strong, armament, one 200-pounder Parrott, five 100-pounder Parrotts, two 30-pounder Parrotts, six 32-pounders, four 12-pounders, two 10-inch mortars. This for holds the upper end of the island. Those previously mentioned are merely arranged to prevent a surprise party from spiking their guns.

The works on the south end guard against an attack from light-House Inlet mainly:

First. Fort Shaw, armament, two 8-inch sea-coast howitzers, five 8-inch siege howitzers, two field pieces, and two 10-inch siege mortars. This fort holds the south end of the island against an attack in any direction.

Second. Battery Purviance, armament, two 42-pounders, two 30-pounder Parrotts, commanded by Fort Shaw.

Outwork on Black Island, armament, two rifled field pieces.

Folly Island.

Work bon north end commands Light-House Inlet:

Fort Greene, armament, two 30-pounder Parrotts, two 12-pounders, two carronades, two mortars.

Works on Pawnee Landing, to protect store-houses and command creeks:

First. Battery of two 30-pounder Parrotts.

Second. Battery of two 6-pounder Parrotts.

Works at white house to hold center of island:

First. Battery of two 30-pounder Parrotts and two 6-pounders.

Second. Work in progress for fourteen guns and four mortars.

Works at lower end command the Stono River:

First. Fort Delafield, two 42-pounder James rifles, three 32-pounder James rifles.

Second. Fort Mahan, three 32-pounder James rifles.

Works on long Island cover approaches to Pawnee Landing and white house:

First. Large infantry keep stockade.

Second. Small fort, two 20-pounder Parrotts.

Works on Cole's Island cover approaches to white house and Stono Inlet:

First. Eastern Redoubt, commands Big Folly River.

Second. Western Redoubt, commands Stono River. No armament in these works when last heard from.

Works on Kiawah Island cover the Stono Inlet from an attack in this direction:

First. Lower redoubt, commands the beach.

Second. Upper redoubt, commands all the end of the island. The armament of these works has been removed. They are held by infantry.

MIDDLE DISTRICT.

Hilton Head.

Work to command the harbor: Fort Welles, seventeen guns.

Works to prevent a land attack:

First. Fort Mitchel, ordered to be dismantled.

Second. Line of intrenchments, undergoing alterations.

Saint Helena Island.

Work to command the harbor: Fort Seward, thirteen guns.

Port Royal Island.

Defenses of Beaufort:

First. Fort Duane and rifle-pit, armament, one 8-inch gun, one 32-pounder, four 18-pounders, one 12-pounder howitzer, two 24-pounder howitzers.

Second. Battery Burnside, two 8-inch guns, one 30-pounder parrott, one 24-pounder.

Third. Battery Seymour, two carronades.

Fourth. Battery Saxton, three 8-inch siege howitzers.

Fifth. Battery Brayton, one 10-pounder Parrott, one 24-pounder howitzer.

Sixth. Battery Taylor, two 30-pounder Parrotts, one 10-pounder Parrott, one 24-pounder.

Cockspur Island.

Works to command the Savannah River:

First. Fort Pulaski.

Second. Water Battery, two 10-inch columbiads and two 100-pounder Parrotts.

DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

Fernandina.

First. Fort Clinch.

Second. Small battery, to command railroad bridge, Saint John's River, and Jacksonville. saint John's Bluff, blockhouse for infantry.

Yellow Bluff.

Two small works for infantry defense; in one a carronade is mounted.

Picolata.

Block-house for infantry, two 6-pounders.

Jacksonville.

The town is surrounded by a line of inclosed works (redoubts and lunettes), connected by rifle-pits. Beginning at the right, they are as follows:

First. Battery Hamilton, open work for field guns.

Second. Redoubt Reed, three guns.

Third. Redoubt Fribley, four guns.

Fourth. Battery McCrea, for field guns, between Nos. 2 and 3.

Fifth. Battery Myrick, for field guns, commands railroad.

Sixth. Redoubt Hatch, four guns.

Seventh. Redoubt Sammon, three guns.

Eighth. Fort Seymour, four guns.

Saint Augustine.

Fort Marion.

The works in the Northern District and District of Florida are all in excellent condition. Those in the Middle District require extensive repairs and alternation. These are being made as rapidly as possible.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

CHAS. R. SUTER,

First Lieutenant, U. S. Engineers, Chief Engineer.