HDQRS. FIRST CALIFORNIA VOLUNTEERS CAVALRY,
Fort Thorn, Ariz., July 6, 1862.

LIEUTENANT: In compliance with orders received from the colonel commanding, dated June 17, 1862, I have the honor to make the following report:

June 21, left Tucson at 3 a. m. with Captain Fritz, Lieutenants Haden and Baldwin, First California Volunteer Cavalry, and 140 men; marched thirty-five miles to Cienega de los Pinos, and encamped at 12. 30 p. m. ; water and grazing abundant. The road to-day is very good, with the exception of two or three hills. At a distance of about twenty-eight miles the road descends into the Cienega, then seven miles to water near the burned station, which stood on the hill to the right of the road. Course, southeast; thirty-five miles. June 22, left Cienega at 6 a. m. ; marched over a high, rolling country, but good wagon road, and splendid grazing all the way for a distance ofabout twenty-two miles, when the road descends through a canon for one miles, and then opens on the San Pedro Valley. Two miles farther the river is reached at the Overland Mail Station; strong bridge over the river; water and grass abundant; wood very scarce. Course, nborthwest; twenty-five miles. There found the name of Jones, the expressman. June 23, left vcamp at crossing of the san Pedro at 7. 30 a. m. The road at once leaves the river and enters a valley about one mile wide and four miles long, when it terminates at the foot of the mesa, which is gained through a narrow canon in which is a long but not very steep hill. The canon is about one miles and a half, when the top of the mesa is reached; then about fourteen iles to Overland Mail Staiton at Dragoon Spring, at which place we arrived at 12. 30 p. m. and encamped; found water sufficient, by digging, up the canon two miles, the trail to which is difficult in some places to leadn animals over. Course, northeast; nineteen miles and a half. June 24, left Dragoon Spring at 10. 30 a. m. ; was detained in consequence of scarcity of water. Marched twenty-five miles over an excellent road to Ewell's Station, arriving there at 5. 30 p. m. ; sent Captain Fritz and six men with spades to examine the spring in the mountain north of station. He had returned to station by the time the command arrived and reported only enough water for the men. Encamped at 6 p. m. Course, northeast; twenty-five miles. June 25, left Ewell's Stationat 1 a. m.,; marched fifteen miles over a very hilly and in places a very rocky road to station in Apache Pass, and encamped at 6 a. m. ; water scarce; no grass. Course, northeast; fifteen miles.

About 12 m. - I being engaged at the spring superintending the watering of animals, it being necessary to dip it with tin cups - four shots were heard in the vicinityof where the horses that had been watered were being grazed under a strong guard. Immediately thereafter it was reported that Indians were in sight and that the guard had fired to give the alarm. Almost immediately thereafter it was reported to me that the Indians were waving a white flag. I at once started for them, taking with me a white flag, and Mr. Newcomb as interpreter. At the end of about one hour I succeeded in getting sufficiently near one of them to be understood. I explained to him what I desired and asked for the cheif. At this time at least 75 to 100 Indians were in sight, many of them mounted on good-looking horses and all of them armed with file-arms, some with rifles and six-shooting pistols. Of the latter I observed a great number and occassionally single-barraled shotguns. When the chief came forward I told him we were Americans, and that our Great Captain lived at Washington; that we wished to be friends of the Apaches; that at present I was only traveling through their country, and desired he would not interfere with my men or anumals; that a great captain was at Tucson with a large number of soldier; peace with them and make them presents. He professed a great desire to be friendly with the Americans, and assured me that neither my men nor animals should be molested. He asked for tobacco and something to eat. I gave him all that could possibly be spared and we parted, with a request on his part that I would meet him at the same place at sunset. On my return it was reported to me that three of the men were missing. A party of thirty were at once sent out in the vicinity of where the firing was heard, and after an hour's search the bodies of the missing men were found stripped of all their clothing and two of them scalped. Each was shot through the chest with fire-arms and lanced through the neck. They were victims to their own imprudence, the entire command having been repeatedly warned by me not to wander from camp. It appears they had started, leading their horses from the spring where the watering was being done, over the ridge into another gulch, when they came on the Indians and were murdered. The Indians succeeded in getting one horse. When the bodies of our murdered men were found instant pursuit of the Indians was made, some of whom were seen on a hill half a mile distant; but being unable to come up with them a return to camp was ordered, carrying in the dead bodies, which were buried, the entire command being present. The animals now being all watered, or as much as could be obtained for them, and there being very little grass in the pass, at 6 p. m. left camp; marched out and made a dry camp on the plain two miles beyond the canon. Course, east by northeast; four miles.

At 11 p. m. a volley of six or eight shots was fired into camp, wounding Acting Assistant Surgeon Kittridge in the head and killing one horse at the picket-lines. June 26, left Dry Camp, Numbers 1, at 6. 30 a. m. ; marched fifteen miles over an excellent road to San Simon Station, then turned square to the right and marched thirteen miles up the dry bed of the river to a large cienega and encamped at 2 p. m. Course, east, northeast, and southeast; twenty-eight miles. This is a splendid camping place - water and grass in the greatest abundance. The proper road to the cienegaturns to the right from th stage road about six miles from Apache Pass and around the point of the mountain. It comes on the San Simon one miles below the water. At 12, midnight, camps was alarmed by a shot fired by one of the guard. On examination it was found to be a coyote, which he mistook in the dark for an Indian crawling through the scattered bushes, but which he instantly killed. This was a very hard day's march on men and animals, being obliged to leave Dry Camp without breakfast owing to the scarcity of water, having but eight five-gallon kegs in which to carry water for the men, and not being able to get at the pass as much water as the animals required. June 27, laid over. June 28, left camp at Cienega of san Simon at 4 p. m. ; marched five miles north-northeast to the pass in the mountains; road heavy. On arriving at the pass, found the road through it very good and the pass wide. Marched fifteen miles from San Simon, and made Dry Camp, Numbers 2, at 10. 15 p. m. Course, north-northeast; fifteen miles. June 29, left Dry Camp at 4 a. m. ; marched nine miles to Lightendorffer's Well, in Round Mountain Canon; good road; well on right of and close to the road. It is about eight feet square and seven feet deep; rock bottom. Halted at well one hour and obtained a very limited supply of water for my command. This is a tolerably good camping place for three companies of infantry. By care they could obtain sufficient water, which is good. Left Lightendorfeer's Well at 8 a. m. ; marched twenty-two miles to Densmore's Station (Soldier's Farewell) and halted at 5 p. m. Discovered here a small spring about two or three miles up the arroyo, north of station, and a hole of bad water 800 yards south of station. Left Densmore's Station at 8 p. m. ; marched fourteen miles to Cow Springs, and encamped at 12, midnight; water and grazing abundant. The road from the Cienega of San Simon to this place is good for loaded teams, excepting four or five miles to the pass. Course, northeast; forty-six miles.

Soon after leaving Densmore's Station found two men on the side of the road under rather suspicuous circumstances; took three letters from them, one directed to the commander of Federal forces at Tucson or en route; put the men in charge of guard and brought them back. (Letters herewith inclosed, marked Nos. 1, 2, and 3. *) There discovered nine men encamped, who proved to be a party sent by Colonel Chivington, commanding Southern Military District of New Mexico, at Fort Craig, with a letter to Colonel Carleton, with verbal orders to deliver it to the commander of the advance of his column when bmet with, and return to Fort Craig. Read the communication, and returned Mr. Milligan and one of his party with the answer to Fort Craig at 3 p. m. on the 30th instant, at which place he would arrived on the evening of the 2nd proximo. Letter of Colonel Chivington and my answer thereto herewith inclosed. * From Mr. milligan I learned of the capture of Jones, the expressman, by the secessioninsts at the Picacho, near Mesilla, his two companions having been killed by Indians at Apache Pass and himself chased by them for a great many mles. This information was brought to Fort Craig by a friendly Mexica, who was present at the capture of Jones. June 30, laid over.

July1. This morning a number of men were discovered by the lookout approaching from the direction of the Pino Alto gold mines; sent out a party and brought them into camp. They proved to be a party of thirty Mexica miners, returning to Sonora in consequence of the almost total absence of provisions at the mines; allowed them to proceed on their journey. Left Cow Springs at 8 a. m. ; arrived at the Rio Miembres at 1 p. m. and encamped two miles above station; water and grazing abundant and of the best quality; road good. Course, northeast; sixteen miles. July 2, laid over. At 1 o'clock this morning one of the pickets discovered persons approaching camp. They were arrested and brought in - twelve men and two women, one a German, the others Mexicans. They also were from the mines en route for Mesiall. Ordered them confined, in order to secure the secrecy of my movements. At 9 a. m. sent out party of twenty men to examine Cooke's Canon, with orders to arrest, if possible, all persons they may meet with, and remain at Cooke's Spring until the command came up. July 3, left Miembres River at 6. 30 a. m. ; marched twelve miles over a good road to Cooke's Pass. From here to summit road hilly. A long, rocky, but not very steep, hill brings you to the to of the pass; from there the descent to the spring is good; distance from pass to spring six miles. Course, north-northeast and northeast; eighteen miles. Therecame up with the party sent in advance yesterday; they reported no person in sight and no fresh traces. July 4, left Cooke's Spring at 6. 30 a. m. ; took Fort Thorn road, which keeps a north-northeast course, while the Mesilla road turns to the right immediately at the spings and bears east-northeast, passing the Overland Mail Station, which is seen on the hill about half a mile distance. Marched thirteen miles to Mule Spring; good road. Here no water could be found even by digging, having sent a party in advance with spades for that purpose. Left Mule Spring at 12 m. ; marched twenty-two miles to the Rio Grande, and encamped at 7 p. m. near Fort Thirn. Course, north-northeast and northeast; thirty-five miles. The road for about eight miles after leaving Mule Spring is very good, when it enters a rolling country, the hills becoming more and more abrupt for a distance of about six miles, when it descends into a broad canon, which is followed on a good road to the river. Immediately on making camp the national colors were raised amid the loud and continued cheers of the assembled command. This was the first time the Stars and Stripes floated on the Rio Grande below Fort Craig since the occupation of the country by the Confederate troops, and it being the anniversary of our National Independence, was not calculated to dampen the ardor of the command. We are now within thorty-five miles of the enemy, which the prisoners whom I have taken variously estimate from 200 to 800 strong. As soon as the horses have a little recruited (they being considerably reduced on a march of about 300 miles through a broiling sun and over a country utterly destitute of water for distances ranging from thirty-five to sixty miles) will reconnoiter his position and endeavor to ascertain his strength, which I have but little doubt of accomplishing, and in case he does not greatly outnumber me will give him a fight. July 5, moved tree miles down the river to and reoccupied Fort Thirn; three miles.

I am, lieutenant, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

E. E. EYRE,

Lieutenant Colonel, First California Volunteer Cavalry, Commanding.

Leiut. BENJAMIN C. CUTLER,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Column from California, Tuscom, Ariz.