SAINT LOUIS, MO., May 30, 1864

General EWING:

DEAR SIR: I have carefully read the communication of A. H. Lee to "Dear Theopheli," dated April 7, 1864, at Prairie du Rocher, which is all erroneous and false, except the killing of 2 guerrillas. The following are the facts in the case:

When I charged into the village several men ran from different houses and fled toward the bluffs, but a short distance (about 150 yards), the base of which is perpendicular rocks from 30 to 50 feet high; they ascended by a narrow defile which must have been known to them. As soon as they entered the defile or oblique passage they disappeared from my sight, and I supposed they had entered a cavern, and immediately gave orders, to have it guarded, and then proceeded to search for more scoundrels but at that instant we were fired upon from the bluffs by men who were behind rocks and trees.

Some of my men returned the fire, while others charged up the cliffs and killed 2 of the gang and wounded another. One of my men was severely wounded. After the fight search was made through the town for others who might be hid. During the time several guns were brought to me by soldiers, who were ordered to take all the arms from houses where the guerrillas were seen to run from. I made repeated inquiries of the citizens if any of the captured guns belonged to them. No one claimed any of them at that time. Afterward I learned that some of them belonged to citizens, and I took measures to return them. I was near Mr. Blais' store all the time we remained in town, except about fifteen or twenty minutes, when I was on the bluff. My men all behaved remarkably well in every respect. No plundering or rioting was committed; if it had been I would have known it or heard of it at the time.

A buggy was procured, as soon as possible, to convey the wounded man, when I left with all my command. Before leaving, when my men were all in line, I proposed to citizens to give three cheers for Lincoln, which ws responded to by about one-half of the crowd, which was composed of 80 or 100 men. Before entering the village I said to my command that we were on an important expedition, and that no citizens should be molested in any way without my orders; and while in town I took every precaution to see that everything was properly conducted, and have always been able to maintain good order and discipline in my company. Mr. Lee is a stranger to me, of whom I know nothing.

Mr. Blais is undoubtedly a copperhead, for a short time since, at an election in Prairie due Rocher, he took a Republican vote from a Mr. Levrie, with an oath that he (Mr. Levrie) was a Black Republican and a traitor to his country, and that he could not cast any such votes there; also, at another time he said that any man that indorsed the administration of President Lincoln could not stay about him.

This will at any time be sworn to by several citizens who live near Prairie du Rocher, and heard him say it. I cannot close without expressing my heartfelt thanks for the privileges extended to me while under arrest with such grave charges. At the same time I keenly feel the wrong and gross injustice done me and my company by the false communication of A. H. Lee and affidavits of Blais, Cooner, and Unger, and trust they will be compelled to make proper amends.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

H. B. MILKS,

Captain Co. H, Third Cavalry, Missouri State Militia.