HDQRS. EIGHTY-SECOND REGIMENT, E. M. M.,
Platte City, Mo., June 2, 1864.

General [C. B. FISK]:

SIR: I am truly sorry to have to report the presence in our county of a band of bushwhackers, seriously estimated at from 30 to 90 men. They made an attack upon the post at New Market on yesterday about 12 m. They took possession of all the arms, and what they could not carry they destroyed. They released and took with them a prisoner. After plundering the town of money, goods, &c., left, taking the road to this place. I was on my way to Saint Joseph for ammunition and supplies, of which my command was entirely destitute. Just as I reached Weston a messenger came in and reported the raid on New Market. I immediately ordered Captain Woods to pursue them. Called the independent company at that place on duty and turned over the post, &c., to them until his return.

Came at once to this place, put the entire force here, except some 10 men who could not be mounted, in the field, and called out the citizens to protect the post. I have ordered all the available forces of the county on duty. I have notified Captain Kemper, at Liberty, of what was up and the direction taken by these thieves. I also requested Colonel Doniphan to send you a dispatch yesterday, not having time to do so myself. I send forward with this a requisition for ammunition that I am compelled to have. I received a dispatch from Captain Woods at 1 o'clock this morning he was on their track. There is another force, under Lieutenant Hawkins, on this side of the Platte River, trying to intercept them. They are making for Clay County. I will have sufficient force in the field to-day. All I lack is ammunition; please send it along. I will report more fully to-morrow. These men are from Buchanan County, several of them and their leader being recognized by a citizen of that county. I will keep this open till the last moment and report what I may learn further from the parties in the field. I must close by saying that nothing more has been received from Captain Woods, commanding in the field. I have just started another company of 36 men under Captain R. D. Johnston to his assistance. I will do my utmost to arrest or exterminate these marauders. I send Mr. Burge, a truly loyal man, as bearer of this, as every man I have is either worn out or in the field.

Yours respectfully,

J. M. CLARK,

Major Eighty-second E. M. M., Commanding, &c.

P. S.-I am just in receipt of some information that may throw some light on this matter. Will report the same as I sift it out.

J. M. CLARK.