TUCSON, ARIZ. TER., October 1, 1862.

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, U. S. Army, San Francisco, Cal.:

COLONEL: I have the honor to report that by virtue of General Orders, Numbers 20, headquarters District of Arizona, Las Cruces, N. Mex., September 5, 1862, I was relieved in command of the District of Western Arizona and of the post and town of Tucson on the 27th ultimo by Major Theo. A. Coult, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, and on the 29th ultimo was relieved as chief commissary of the Column from California by Captain N. S. Davis, First Infantry California Volunteers, and by the same order directed to proceed to La Libertad and examine the intermediate country with a view to the transportation of supplies, ascertain the resources of the country on the route, and also the availability of Lobos Bay as a port where military supplies destined for Arizona may be landed; then to repair in person to the headquarters of the District of Arizona, and make a report of my examination of the port of Lobos route to the general commanding the Column from California, and as soon thereafter as practicable to assume command of my regiment, the First Cavalry California Volunteers. I would remark that there is a confusion in regard to Lobos Bay and Libertad. They are entirely distinct and separate places, as I understand. As soon as Major Could, commanding, shall be able to give me an escort I shall start on this duty. I can find no odometer here, and no ambulance or spring wagon has been left to carry instruments. Thus my reconnaissance will be one such as I will dislike to make. I am detailed to General Carleton as a member of a military commission to convene at this place on the 6th instant. The cavalry force at this post does not exceed nine privates for duty, and it is doubtful if the new commander of Arizona will permit the detachment under Lieutenant Wardwell, which left here on the 9th ultimo, to return.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

D. FERGUSSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding.