HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
Twelve miles from Grand Ecore, junction of the roads to Pleasant Hill and Natchitoches, April 10, 1864-7 a.m.

Major GEORGE B. DRAKE, Assistant Adjutant-General:

Your dispatch of yesterday afternoon was received at 3.30 o'clock third morning, while on the march on the White Store, road, while in my rear was a train of some 15 miles in length, rendering it impossible to turn back, and I have marched to this place, intending to take the road over which I marched before, but the trains are coming in on both roads, and from officers connected with them I learn that they are stretched out for 10 miles in the rear, and the road reported in terrible condition. Our mules are completely worked down, as they have been in harness and pulling on bad roads for the last three days and nights, with scarcely any rest, notwithstanding that yesterday I abandoned nearly all the tents and heavy articles and reduced my loads nearly one-third to keep up with General Ransom's escort, as directed by message from headquarters.

I have necessarily halted here for feed and rest for men and teams, but will start on as soon as the road in clear, although with the teams and roads in their present condition I do not think we can make Pleasant Hill before to-morrow night; however, I will do all I can. The dispatch for Colonel I sent by an orderly from the First Division of cavalry, as Sullivan's horse was about used up, and no one that I could find had any idea where Colonel D. was. Colonel Chandler was here a few moments ago and said that it would be impossible for me to move on, as it would take nearly all day for his teams to get off the road, but I will try and go as far as I can.

I am, major, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

H. POOLE,

Lieutenant, &c.

My guard will consist of 40 cavalry and about the same number of infantry. I am trying to obtain some mules from the train now passing to take the place of mine that are used up. Thus far I have not succeeded in obtaining any. Was pleased to hear of your brilliant victory yesterday. Am sorry that I did not receive the order to turn about before I got to these awful roads.

H. POOLE,

Lieutenant, &c.