HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF UTAH,
Fort Ruby, October 1, 1862.

[Major R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Department of the Pacific:]

MAJOR: I have the honor to report that in consequence of the non-arrival of supplies I have been unable to advance from this post to my destination. Some supplies have arrived, sufficient to warrant me to leave to-morrow. I would respectfully ask for instructions as to the kind of quarters I am to erect whether temporary cantonments, or to erect with a view to permanency. Captain Rowe desires to withdraw his resignation. He presented it under excitement on account of Captain McLean's ranking him. I approved it, as I have made it a rule to so do under all circumstances. The captain has proven himself an efficient and intelligent officer since joining my command, although do not approve of his course at Fort Churchill last winter. As a military necessity I would respectfully recommend that the order accepting his resignation be rescinded, as the two companies of cavalry now with me are commanded by second lieutenants of little experience. Captain Price is on sick leave, and Captains Smith and McLean have gone with Major McGarry. The inclosed letter of instructions explains itself. Captain Smith's company left day before yesterday for Gravelly Ford, with instructions to scour the country in that vicinity well before joining the major. Inclosed I have the honor to forward a regimental order made by Major McGarry, changing his afjutant. Since my arrival at this post I have had sufficient timber cut and huled to erect winter quarters, store-house, &c., for the command to remain here, viz, Companies C and F, of my regiment. The labor has all been done and several buildings partly erected by a few estra-duty men, the police, and teams of the command. It is necessary and important that I should have money to pay for such supplies as I am compelled to purchase of the Mormons, viz, forage, beef, &c. Otherwise Brigham may seize the want of it as a pretext to prevent his people from supplying me. The people of Uhat are under the impression that I am to winter at Fort Crittenden, and I am credibly informed by letter this morning that the flag-staff at Fort Crittenden was cut down since my visit and hauled away by Brigham's order. The staff belonged to the reservation, and was not sold by the Government at the time of the sale of the other property. Inclosed I have the honor to transmit a communication from Captain Rowe, and charges against Private Cox, of Company M, Second Cavalry. I have now in confinement three general prisoners, and would respectfully ask that a general court-martial be convened at as early a day as practicable. A reply to the application of Captain Rowe by telegraph is respectfully requested.

P. EDW. CONNOR,

Colonel Third Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding District.