HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF ARIZONA,
Mesilla, October 8, 1862.

Lieutenant BEN. C. CUTLER,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Department of New Mexico, Santa Fe:

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your instructions from department headquarters for the movement of Company C, First Cavalry California Volunteers, to Fort Craig, and Light Company A, Third Artillery, to Albuquerque. There have been heavy rains here for the last four days, which retarded bringing grain up from San Elizario. In all probability these companies cannot be moved for a week. The want of forage on hand here, and the neglect of advice of what is being collected below (for which Captain Roberts, First Infantry California Volunteers, has been placed under arrest), has caused me some temporary embarrassment, and until obviated will prevent the prompt execution of orders for any movement. I therefore send twenty wagons to Fort Craig for grain by permission of the general commanding. Upon its receipt no more delays need occur. Lieutenant-Colonel Rigg informs me that the train of twenty wagons that accompanied him to Fort Craig were being loaded with subsistence stores to return to this post. He had written instructions to send them to Peralta to report to Captain Enos, assistant quartermaster. These may have been countermanded by higher authority. The inclosed order* also refers to movements of troops within the district, which are deemed judicious in consequence of the reduction of my force. After Captain Pishon's return Lieutenant Wardwell with twenty-one men of Company E, First Cavalry California Volunteers, will form the extreme outpost at San Elizario. Captain Willis, with Company A, First Infantry California Volunteers, will guard Franklin and Hart's Mill, and will, in my opinion, be sufficient for that purpose. Companies A and D, First Cavalry California Volunteers, will be located at Camp Johnson, five miles below La Mesa. The garrison at Mesilla will consist of Companies B, C, D, E, H, and K, First Infantry California Volunteers. Fort Fillmore will continue to be occupied by Company A, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, until further orders. The withdrawal of the artillery from the district greatly weakens my strength. I trust the deficiency will soon be supplied by the battery which the general commanding designs sending from above. I propose to put it in charge of Lieutenant Thompson and Company E, First Infantry California Volunteers. I know of none better for the purpose. I was on the point of sending Captain Shirland with twenty men to the Pinos Altos Mines. Active operations are going on there; the Indians are troublesome, and disorder prevails among the Mexicans and Americans. Should the general commanding agree with me that one company of infantry and one of cavalry are sufficient for the garrison at Tucson, I will order Captain Whitlock with Company F, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, to take station either at Fort McLane or at the mines. This company is now at Tucson. If moved as indicated it can be used in case the Texans advance.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. R. WEST,

Colonel First Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding.