HDQRS. SIGNAL DETACHMENT, 15TH ARMY CORPS,
East Point, Ga., September 12, 1864.

GENERAL: I have the honor to submit the following as my report of the signal detachment, Fifteenth Army Corps, for the campaign ending September 8, 1864:

May 1, this detachment, consisting of four commissioned officers and twelve enlisted men, left Huntsville, Ala., by order of Major-General Logan, in company with the headquarters Fifteenth Army Corps, and proceeded to Chattanooga, Tenn., where it arrived on the morning of the 6th of May. Moved the same day to Gordon's Mills, by order of the commanding general, thence to Snake Creek Gap in company with the Fifteenth Army Corps. May 9, met the enemy. Lieutenants Edge and Sample move din company with the skirmishers, they driving the enemy until within a mile of their rifle-pits when the rebels fired from ambush, wounding the horse of Lieutenant Sample so badly that he fell, dismounting the lieutenant. This caused him to fall back to the main line. Lieutenant Edge kept in front with the skirmishers, and gained a point called Bald Knob, in sight of Resaca, and in range of the enemy's sharpshooters. A message was immediately sent from Lieutenant Edge to Generals McPherson, Logan, and Dodge, informing them of the enemy's works and force. I a short time after Major-Generals McPherson, Logan, and Dodge made a reconnaissance in person, each of them using the glass of the lieutenant, and became satisfied that the information received from Lieutenant Edge was correct. Lieutenant Edge was then ordered by Major-General McPherson to remain as long as possible at his post, and give all the information he could to the generals, which was done with promptness. At dark Lieutenant Edge fell back with the army. May 10, the detachment received orders from Captain O. H. Howard, chief signal officer, to assist in opening communication with Major-General Hooker, in compliance with order from Major-General Sherman, which was promptly obeyed. May 11, succeeded in getting communication with Major-Generals Sherman and Hooker. Lieutenants McNary, Edge, Sample, and Frerichs were engaged on this line. May 13, the detachment moved to the front, by order of Major-General Logan, each officer being placed in the most prominent position, in order to give information, both by flag and courier, of all movements of the enemy and our own army, which was done with promptness. May 16, moved with the army, by order of General Logan, and crossed the Oostenaula. May 17, Lieutenants Edge and Sample moved in front, with the cavalry skirmishers, reconnoitering and keeping them and the commanding general informed of all movements of the enemy. May 18, moved with the army, by order of General Logan, to Adairsville. May 19, went into camp near Kingston, where we remained until the morning of the 23d. May 21, Lieutenant McNary, commanding the detachment, was relieved from duty, by order of Major-General McPherson, on account of expiration service, and First Lieutenant Samuel Edge assumed command by seniority. First Lieutenant John H. Frerichs returned to Huntsville, Ala., by order of Major-General McPherson, this leaving two officers and twelve enlisted men for duty. May 23 moved with the army, by order of General Logan, toward Pumpkin Vine Creek, arriving May 25. May 26, reconnoitered the enemy near Dallas; gave information to Major-Generals McPherson and Logan. May 27, Lieutenants Edge and Sampel established a station near Dallas, and opened signal communications with Major-Generals Sherman and Hooker, and transmitted all official dispatches with promptness until June 1, when the Army of the Tennessee moved and joined the Army of the Cumberland, causing us to abandon our line of communication.

June 1, Lieutenants Edge and Sample, moved to the front of the new position of the Army of the Tennessee and established a station of observation and received several contraband dispatches and transmitted them to Generals McPherson and Logan as soon as received. Also gave general information of the enemy moving from our front. June 2, received several more contraband dispatches and transmitted them promptly to the generals commanding. June 3, Lieutenants I. C. Worley, J. H. Weirick, W. W. Allen, and C. H. Fish, with twenty-eight enlisted men reported to Lieutenant S. Edge, commanding detachment, for signal duty, by order of Captain O. H. Howard, chief signal officer. June 4, received some more contraband messages. June 5, at daylight Lieutenants Edge and Sample found the enemy's works evacuated, and proceeded immediately to old rebel signal station. Answered rebel signal call from Lost Mountain, received contraband message, which was promptly transmitted to Major-Generals McPherson and Logan. The detachment then moved with the Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of the commanding general, to Acworth, arriving June 6. June 7, Lieutenant Edge proceeded to white frame church, built a station of observation, at 11 p.m. opened communication by signals to Allatoona Mountain, and placed Lieutenants Worley and Allen on station. This station was occupied until the 10th of June, transmitting all messages with promptness. June 9, First Lieutenant Samuel S. Sample and three men were relieved from duty with this detachment, assigned to duty in the signal detachment attached to Seventeenth Army Corps, by order of Major-General McPherson. June 10, abandoned station on church and moved with the Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of Major-General McPherson. June 10, abandoned station on church and moved with the Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of the commanding general, to Big Shanty. Lieutenant Edge, with the assistance of the officers in the detachment, established two stations of observation, received the two contraband dispatches, and transmitted them to the commanding generals as soon as received, when the rebels changed their code and for one day cut off our contraband information. June 11, watched rebel movements all day. The officers, with the aid of Captain O. H. Howard, chief signal officer, deciphered the rebels'

new code of signals. Lieutenant Edge received two contraband messages and found them complete. June 14, moved to the front of Kenesaw Mountain, and established two stations of observation. Lieutenants Edge, Worley and Allen occupying one, and Lieutenants Weirick and Fish the other, received several contraband messages of considerable importance, which were transmitted with promptness to Major-Generals McPherson and Logan. June 15, occupied the same stations; received several contraband messages, all of which were transmitted to the generals. Lieutenant Weirick directed the firing of the First Minnesota Battery, Captain Clayton, by the aid of his glass, which resulted in blowing up a caisson and knocking off one wheel of a gun. June 16., occupied same stations and gave important information to the generals. June 17, Lieutenant Edge noticed the enemy making movement indicating an evacuation, and reported the same to the generals; also assisted, with the aid of his glass, the firing of two batteries. June 18, the enemy had evacuated their works. Lieutenant Edge went to the front and received two contraband messages and handed them over to Major General W. T. Sherman, who was standing on the spot. Our batteries then drove the rebel signal officers off the mountain, and there has not been a rebel signal station seen by any officer in the department since. June 19, Lieutenant Edge, in company with the officers of the detachment, established two stations of observation from which the gave some information to the generals. June 20, Lieutenant Edge, in company with the officers of the detachment, established a flag station by order of Captain O. H. Howard, chief signal officer. June 21, worked some stations. June 22, established a flag station, by order of Captain O. H. Howard, to communicant with Generals Sherman and Thomas. June 23, established flag station on cotton-gin. June 24, 25, kept up same stations. June 26, abandoned station on cotton-gin, and established stations of observation. June 27, watched the enemy closely all day. A charge being ordered by Major-General Sherman, the officers of the detachment used every means in their power to give the commanding generals information promptly of all movements of the enemy as well as of our own army. June 38 at 30, our forces having been repulsed, there was but very little seen during those three days. July 1 and 2, the same.

July 3, finding that the enemy had evacuated, Lieutenant Edge proceeded with the advance of the army to Marietta, Ga., found the enemy still falling back, and informed the general commanding Fifteenth Army Corps of the same. The detachment encamped with the Fifteenth Army Corps in two that night. July 4, moved toward Edwards' Ferry, on the Chattahoochee River, arriving on the 5th of July. July 5, found the enemy strongly fortified on the north bank of the river, near the ferry, of which the generals were informed by Lieutenant Edge. July 6, Lieutenant Edge established a station of observation on top of a tree, from which could be seen the rebel lines, Atlanta, and most of our own works. From this station Lieutenant Edge, with the said of other officers, directed the firing of several batteries by signals. This station gave general satisfaction to all general and staff officers. Lieutenant Edge, with the assistance of Lieutenant Sample, of signal detachment, Seventeenth Army Corps, kept up his observations until the afternoon of the 12th of July. Lieutenants Worley and Allen reported to General Garrard at Roswell by order of Major-General Sherman, to open signal communication with headquarters Military Division of the Mississippi. Lieutenants Weirick and Fish established flag station in rear of Tenth Ohio Battery, by order of Lieutenant Edge, the rebel shells plowing the dirt all around them, one of which killed a horse. On the morning of the 10th the enemy had evacuated their works and fallen back across the river. Lieutenants Weirick and Fish moved to old rebel fort and opened communication with Lieutenant Edge in signal tree. These stations were kept opened until the 12th of July. The detachment then moved, by order of General Logan, toward Roswell, passing through Marietta, where it arrived on the evening of the 14th of July. Lieutenants Worley and Allen were relieved by General Garrard and report to the detachment. July 17, the detachment moved toward Stone Mountain, by order of General Logan, with the army. July 18, arrived at the Augusta railroad, one mile from the mountain. Lieutenant Edge, in company with three companies of General Garrard's division of cavalry, proceeded to Stone Mountain Station, but was driven back to the main army by the enemy. July 29, the detachment moved toward Decatur with the Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of General Logan, Lieutenant Edge, in company with the escort of General Logan, moving in front. Finding a position from which he could see the enemy's forces, he reconnoitered the enemy for some time and saw them evacuating, of which he informed the general commanding Fifteenth Army Corps, after which the corps moved up near Decatur, and the general and his escort rode into town. July 20, the detachment moved toward Atlanta, by order of General Logan, with the Fifteenth Army Corps, and found the enemy in force. Lieutenant Edge reconnoitered their lines and gave some important information to the commanding generals during the day. July 21, the enemy's lines being driven back by our forces, Lieutenant Edge established a station of observation on a tall pine close to our main line. From this station he could see nearly all of the city of Atlanta, the rebel lines, and most of our own works. Lieutenant Allen, in company with Captain O. H. Howard, chief signal officer, built another station on another tree. From these stations the generals received considerable information during the day. July 22, Lieutenant Edge took his position in large pine, Lieutenant Fish in station established by Captain O. H. Howard and Lieutenant Allen. Lieutenant Allen reported to Major-Generals McPherson and Logan the movements of the enemy. At 11 a.m. he reported additional movements of an alarming nature. At 12.30 p.m. the enemy made an attack on our left wing. At 12.45 p.m. General McPherson accompanied by Captain O. H. Howard and Lieutenant W. W. Allen, of this detachment, with other officers and men, were fired upon by the enemy, resulting in the death of the general and the wounding of Lieutenant Allen, caused by the jumping of his horse against a tree, fracturing his ankle. Soon after this accident Lieutenant Edge saw the rebels massing in front of Fifteenth Corps, and reported the fact to Major-General Logan, and Brigadier General M. L. Smith. The enemy charged, driving our men back some distance, which forced Lieutenant Edge to abandon his station. Our troops rallied, drove the enemy back, and the station was reoccupied. These stations were kept up until Decatur, in company with the escort of General Logan, to reconnoiter and open communication, if possible, with the front, but failed in doing so. July 26 at dark the detachment moved with the Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of the commanding general, from the left to the right of the grand army. July 27, reconnoitered the enemy's lines, gave information to the commanding generals. July 28, Lieutenant Weirick saw from an observation station columns of rebel infantry moving to our right, apparently to make an attack. He informed General Logan of the fact, which proved afterward to be correct. This information gave the Fifteenth Army Corps timely notice of the approach of the enemy, and the result of the engagement is well known. July 29-31, the officers of this detachment did nothing but reconnoiter the enemy's position.

August 1, Lieutenant Edge proceeded to a 20-pounder battery, by order of Captain O. H. Howard, to direct the firing of their guns on the city. August 2, Lieutenant Edge proceeded to the front and built a station of observation on a tree, from which he could see the most of the city of Atlanta, a great portion of the enemy's works, the Macon railroad, and portions of our own lines. This station was kept up until the 26th of August, and was occupied most of the time by First Lieutenant C. H. Fish. From him the generals received a great deal of the most important information. Lieutenant Edge proceeded to this station every day and made a general reconnaissance of the enemy's works, which was all promptly reported to Major-Generals Howard and Logan. Lieutenant Weirick proceeded each day to the front and reported the result of his observations to the commanding generals. Lieutenants Worley and Allen proceeded to Allatoona Mountain, by order of General Sherman, August 19, to establish a signal station to communicate with Kenesaw and headquarters Military Division of the Mississippi, where they are still on duty, Lieutenant Allen's wound having healed up, so that he was able for duty. August 26, at dark the detachment moved, by order of General Logan, with the Fifteenth Army Corps, toward Jonesborough. August 28, arrived at the Atlanta and Montgomery Railroad. Lieutenant Edge made some reconnaissance from the top of a tree; saw two brigades of enemy moving toward us, and informed Major-Generals Howard and Logan of the same. Toward evening the same force retreated toward Jonesborough. August 30, moved again with Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of General Logan, toward Jonesborough, when the army encountered the enemy and went into position across Flint River. August 31, Lieutenants Edge and Fish, with their men, established a station of observation in a tall pine free, from where they had a good view of Jonesborough, the enemy's lines, and Macon railroad. From this station of observation the generals received considerable information during the battles of August 31 and September 1.
September 2, finding the enemy had evacuated, the army all moved into Jonesborough, the officers of this detachment keeping in front of the Fifteenth Army Corps, and found the enemy strongly fortified near Lovejoy's, Ga., which brought us to a halt. Lieutenant Fish immediately established a station of observation on cotton-press, from which could be seen the enemy in large numbers, all of which was reported to Major-Generals Howard and Logan. Occupied this station three days, giving all possible information to the commanding generals. September 5, in the evening the detachment moved, with the Fifteenth Army Corps, by order of the commanding general, to the present position, and went into camp, the campaign having ended.

First Lieutenant John H. Frerichs was relieved from duty with the detachment July 8, 1864, by order of the Secretary of War.

The most of the stations mentioned in this report were under fire and nearly half of them in the most dangerous positions, from which officers and men were liable to be shot down at any moment. Those stations most dangerous have been occupied equally by the officers and men of this detachment all of whom have shown the greatest coolness and bravery. The detachment consists at the present time of five commissioned officers and thirty-four enlisted men, all but two enlisted men able for duty.

Hoping this report will prove satisfactory, I have the honor to be, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SAMUEL EDGE,

First Lieutenant, Sixteenth Ohio Volunteer Infantry,

and Acting Signal Officer, Commanding Detachment.

Major General JOHN A. LOGAN, Commanding Fifteenth Army Corps.