Numbers 1. Reports of Brigadier General Camille J. Polignac, C. S. Army, commanding brigade.

HEADQUARTERS POLIGNAC'S BRIGADE,
Harrisonburg, La., March 3, 1864.

MAJOR: I have the honor to report the following facts: On the 1st instant one iron-clad boat and five other boats (semi-gun-boats and semi-transports), part of which belong to the Mosquito Fleet, made their appearance off Beard's Point, on Black River, where my lower picket is located, and reached Trinity at 4.30 p. m. Having received intelligence of their approach, I notified Captain Devoe, of the engineer department, left at Trinity by Major Douglas, chief engineer, in time for him to secrete the 32-pounders that had been taken to Trinity by the direction of the latter officer, and which could not be used, as only one was mounted and there was no ammunition for them. Captain W. H. Gillespie, with 50 cavalry, engaged the enemy on the west bank of the Black River all the way up to Trinity, the enemy responding with a brisk artillery fire. The six boats stopped in front of Trinity and shelled the place and its neighborhood. I had disposed my infantry force along the north bank of Little River to protect as best I could the pontoon bridge, and also in order to detain the enemy, if possible, long enough for the captain of the Ruby (now engaged in getting lumber on Little River for the engineer corps) to be notified of their approach by a courier previously sent by me. The boats, however, did not come up Little River, and Lieutenant O. Gaudet, in command of the only section of artillery that I had, opened upon them with two 12-pounder howitzers, which, of course, were unable to check their progress. This officer behaved very well. His section was within 300 yards of the iron-clad boat, and stood the unequal contest with a great deal of coolness.

As soon as the gun-boats had run past Trinity, and thus made apparent their intention of attacking Harrisonburg, I moved my infantry and artillery back to that place that same night, as I had to ferry the Bushly Bayou, a navigable stream, where the enemy could easily head me off. It had rained on the day previous and the road had become almost impassable. Two caissons had to be left behind. I have since [had them] pulled out and brought to camp. I ordered the cavalry to remain at Trinity. Captain John G. Randle, by some unaccountable mistake, took his cavalry up Little River, so that the duty of guarding the town devolved upon Captain Gillespie alone.

This young officer behaved throughout with coolness, energy, and judgment, and I take great pleasure in commending him to the officers above me.

On the 2nd instant, at 10 a.m., the same boats hove in sight of Harrisonburg. I had placed two infantry regiments on the bank of the Ouachita River, from the mouth of the Bushly Bayou up to the vicinity of the town, and one section of artillery (6-pounder Parrott guns), under Captain Faries, at a place where it could do the most effective firing. The other section of the same battery could not participate in the fight for want of its caissons, and also because the horses were so badly used up by the night's march and the bad roads as to be altogether unfit for service. The enemy's boats were opened upon by our infantry and artillery at the same time. From the nature of their build the iron-clad was safe against my artillery, and the wooden boats were protected from the musketry by a plate of sheet-iron between two thicknesses of wood on their sides. Having ascertained that there were no guns on the front they moved slowly up, firing as they went as well on the troops on the bank of the river as at the town, in which several houses were riddled with shot, regardless of the lives of the women and children. One of the boats, apparently somewhat damaged by the fire of the artillery, dropped back below the mouth of the Bushly, and the balance went up the Ouachita. They returned about one hour afterward and threw some incendiary matter into a house in town immediately on the bank of the river, which caused that house and the neighboring ones to ignite instantly.

Fortunately I was able, with considerable exertion, to stop the conflagration, which had liked to have swept over the whole place. After this the boats ran down the river and lay all night 1 mile above Trinity. This morning they are shelling Trinity. I have not yet heard the particulars, and will forward as soon as possible another report. The enemy fired not less than 1,000 rounds, out of 24 and 32 pounders and 12-pounder Parrott guns and guns of smaller caliber, a great deal of grape, canister, and spherical case, and some 8 and 11 inch shells.

The troops, as a general rule, behaved well. Colonel Taylor and Lieutenant-Colonel Stone, in command of the infantry, led their regiments in a manner creditable to themselves. The fire from the boats was very heavy on the banks of the river. Both my aides (Captain S. Cuculler and Lieutenant W. Eggeling), whose coolness I feel my duty to report, lost their horses killed while they were in the discharge of their duty. The casualties are 3 killed and 13 wounded, 3 of which mortally.

The enemy had troops on board of their boats firing through loopholes. As they kept themselves constantly hid their number could not be ascertained. One of their boats was a very large one, which could carry 800 men, but it is believed that their force was not as large. The above is all I have to report. I regret that I did not achieve more, but, with the means at my disposal, to fight was about all that I could do.

I am, major, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

C. J. POLIGNAC,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.

Major L. BUSH,

Assistant Adjutant-General.