HDQRS. DIST. OF MINN., DEPT. OF THE NORTHWEST,
Saint Paul, Minn., April 9, 1864.

Major General JOHN POPE,

Milwaukee:

GENERAL: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch of 4th instant. Your order prohibiting the departure of the Sixth Regiment Minnesota Volunteers until orders to the contrary are sent me from department headquarters will be complied with, and the detachments of that regiment now stationed along the outer defenses of the frontier will be directed to hold themselves in readiness to move as soon as marching orders reach them.

I cannot but believe that the latter part of your dispatch is based upon a misapprehension of the force in this district. Leaving the Sixth Regiment out of the estimate, I have under my command the Eighth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, numbering about 800 effective men; the Second Minnesota Cavalry, about 1,050 men; Hatch's battalion, about 350 men; the Third Minnesota Battery, about 125 men; and the Invalid or Veteran Reserve Corps, numbering about 150. The first-named regiment (to be mounted), with eight companies Second Cavalry and two sections of the battery, say, 1500 men, or perhaps 1,600, are to be dispatched in accordance with your directions to join General Sully. I shall then be left without any infantry force to establish the two posts in the interior, and the rest of the military strength specified will be barely sufficient to garrison the posts already in existence and guard the frontier against hostile raids. Brackett's battalion is, of course, not embraced in the foregoing enumeration, it being under marching orders for Sioux City. Forts Abercrombie, Ripley, and Ridgely should not be garrisoned by less than two companies each, and the Veteran Reserve detachment will be required at Fort Snelling.

There are some exposed stations along the extensive line which should be occupied by small detachments, and to effect all these objects you will perceive I shall be left with a force all told of not more than one regiment of men. To enable me to carry out your plan for the establishment of the posts on James River and Devil's Lake the First Regiment should be ordered on duty in this district without delay. Its three years' term of service expires on 29th instant, when many of the veterans will be mustered out, leaving between 300 and 400, including recruits. The ranks can, I think, be filled up to the minimum, at least in time to enable me to dispatch a force sufficient for the two posts.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

H. H. SIBLEY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.

N. B.-I did not advert to another fact, as I perhaps should have done, and that is the necessity of having some disposable force on hand to enforce the draft. It is Governor Miller's belief, as well as my own, that in some localities in this State there will be resistance unless there is a military force on hand to compel submission.

Respectfully,

H. H. SIBLEY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.