HEADQUARTERS POLIGNAC'S BRIGADE,
Harrisonburg, March 4, 1864.

SIR: Yesterday morning the gun-boat fleet made their appearance for the second time at Trinity. One of the boats ran up Little River and destroyed the pontoon bridge. Captain John G. Randle, who was then at Trinity in command of the cavalry, did not even attempt to prevent it. I have the regret to report that I was very badly assisted by this officer, who, unfortunately, was the senior officer, and whom I had naturally placed in command. He did not notify me of the movement of the enemy, and it was only indirectly that I heard this morning that a gun-boat was aground, as I had the honor to inform you. This fact occurred in the following way: The gun-boat Numbers 13 was badly crippled by the fire of my artillery on the 2nd instant, and had to be towed down to Trinity. As she lay off Little River the current caught her, and in swinging to she ran aground. This took place about noon yesterday. The water had fallen considerably, and the two 32-pounders which had been rolled into the water at the mouth of Little River were partly visible above the surface, as I am informed by Captain Gillespie, who was in town with a cavalry picket. The enemy took them out and put them on board of one of the boats. During the night they dug up another of [the] guns which had been buried on the mound on which the fort was building, with the greater facility, as by burning the bridge they had interrupted communication between both banks of Little River. They also succeeded in pulling the damaged gun-boat from off the sand, and this morning at daybreak they left Trinity. My infantry consequently came too late to be of any service.

It is with feelings of deep regret that I have to report the loss of the guns, but as I am conscious to have done as much as I could under the circumstances, I would respectfully remind, through you, the brigadier-general commanding that these guns were withdrawn from my charge by superior order; that they were taken to Trinity without my advice, and that I was so circumstanced as to be without authority to oppose such removal. Furthermore, I would refer the general to my late correspondence with district headquarters, which will show that I had plainly foreseen and adverted to the danger of the situation. The enemy are said to have buried 15 dead on the bank of the Ouachita River. Such parts of the wooden boats as were not iron-plated were riddled with shot.

I am, major, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

C. J. POLIGNAC,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.

Major L. BUSH,

Assistant Adjutant-General, & c.