HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF NEW MEXICO,

Santa Fe, N. Mex., October 3, 1862.

Colonel JOSEPH R. WEST,

Commanding District of Arizona, Mesilla:

COLONEL: I have received your letter of the 24th ultimo. * The anomaly of the column and of the district will have to be tolerated until the matter is decided in relation to the absorbing of the column into the force of this department. If the duties cannot be done without too much embarrassment we must see what will remedy the matter. The orders in relation to affairs in Arizona which you say you lack to enable you to attend to the current business have never been issued; that is to say, the troops were left at Tucson and at Fort Bowie to attend to all matters needful to the service, without having specific instructions on all points. I propose to keep a train running from Tucson to Fort Yuma and back that supplies may accumulate at Tucson for future contingencies. A six months' supply drawn from Tucson should be kept at Apache Pass (Fort Bowie). The garrison at Tucson should be two companies of infantry and one of cavalry. This will enable one company of infantry and one of cavalry to take the field against Indians, to furnish necessary escorts, &c., while a company of infantry guards the depot of supplies. The troops at Fort Bowie are to fight the Apache Indians in that vicinity whenever found, and are to help people, by escorts, through the pass whenever necessary. (See the orders establishing that post.) No flour or other subsistence stores are to be purchased in any part of your district if they can be furnished from the depots at Fort Yuma or Fort Craig. You are at liberty to order the men of Captain Joseph Smith's company from Fort Bowie to Mesilla. Mangus Colorado sends me word he wants peace, but I have no faith in him; nor have I faith in the belief that the Indians have permanently left the Apache Pass. The garrison there should now be on its guard, as there are no signs of Indians about. Give instructions that all specie funds which Captain Morris may have brought to Tucson will be sent to the Rio Grande, where these funds will not be expended until further advices from these headquarters. It may be necessary for Lieutenant Coleman to be sent to the Pima Villages to clear up any difficulty about the tickets he gave the Indians for wheat. (See Major Fergusson's letter on this subject, dated September 10, 1862, herewith inclosed. *) I desire that you furnish these headquarters with copies of all letters, orders, and instructions of any importance which you may issue. Order Lieutenant Bennett, Second Cavalry, to join his company. captain Daivs must come forward at once. When he arrives at Mesilla order him to report to me, bringing with him such papers as may be necessary to a full understanding of all his means of transportation. It will be better for him to bring with him all his papers and all the funds for which he may be responsible which he has on hand in either the quartermaster's or subsistence department.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAMES H. CARLETON,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.