FORT GASTON, CAL., May 5, 1863.

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to state for the information of the colonel commanding that, upon receiving intelligence on the evening of the 2nd instant of the attack upon our pack train, I ordered a detachment consisting of thirty men, under command of Captain Morton, to proceed at once in pursuit of the Indians. Lieutenant Delany was also detailed, and to take command of one of the parties in case it was found expedient to divide the detachment. Up to this time nothing has been heard from this command. I have made inquiry as to any evidence connecting the Hoopa Indians with the attack, but can find none. Private Neal, one of the escort, and who is, I believe, perfectly reliable, states that the Indians were so completely concealed by the brush that nothing but the smoke from their guns could be discovered, and that the nearest view they had of the attacking party was after the affair, when they were crossing a ridge about three-quarters of a mile distant. Of course it was then impossible to discover to what tribe they belonged. In addition to the lamentable loss of life, Lieutenants Stewart and Winchill met with serious losses, pecuniary and otherwise, viz, full-dress uniform, including hats and epaulets, three swords (one of them a valuable present to Lieutenant Stewart), four sashes, a valuable gold watch (Lieutenant Winchill's) jewelry, keepsakes, mattresses, blankets, wearing apparel, &c. A portion of the papers of Lieutenant Winchill, relating to his quartermaster's and commissary business at Fort Baker, have been picked up near the place of attack. The officers estimate their loss at nearly $1,000. Private McNeal thinks there were not over twelve or fifteen Indians concerned in the attack. I have little doubt they are the remaining remnant of the band of Redwoods that have committed former depredations.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAS. N. OLNEY,

Lieutenant Colonel Second Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding Post.

Lieutenant BARTH,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Humboldt Mil. Dist., Fort Humboldt.