[Inclosure Numbers 1.]

HDQRS. CAVALRY CORPS, ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, February 17, 1864.

Major-General HUMPHREYS,
Chief of Staff, Army of the Potomac:

GENERAL: In obedience to the instruction of the major-general commanding, of this date, I have the honor to state that the plan proposed by Brigadier-General Kilpatrick in the inclosed communication is not feasible at this time.

When the Stoneman raid was made last year, General Lee's army was closely engaged with the Army of the Potomac at Chancellorsville, and the country was clear, yet the damage done by that raid was repaired in a few days, while the loss to the Government was over 7,000 horses, besides the equipments and men left on the road. Had this force been retained for the Gettysburg campaign the results would have been more decisive.

General Kilpatrick might succeed in cutting the telegraph from Lee's army and from Fredericksburg to Richmond, but the telegraph by the way of Gordonsville and Lynchburg would soon notify the rebels in Richmond that our cavalry was out, and before Kilpatrick could do much damage their vulnerable points would be secured. For the success of such an expedition I would be willing to sacrifice the number of horses required, but in the present state of the roads and the facilities the rebels have, with their army disengaged and distributed for frustrating such an effort, I cannot recommend it.

In reference to the President's proclamation, I will most willingly undertake to have it freely circulated in any section of Virginia that may be desired. I do not think I am promising too much in naming even Richmond.

I am in the receipt of information from the James River which is satisfactory to me that the amnesty proclamation is freely circulating in Virginia, but that the people are so watched as to prevent much action as yet on their part. As an instance is mentioned a strong Union man at Howardsville, who has $160,000 in coin secreted, but who never been able to escape with it.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

A. PLEASONTON,

Major-General, Commanding.