HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE NORTHWEST,

Milwaukee, Wis., May 28, 1864

Brigadier General H. H. SIBLEY,

Commanding District of Minnesota:

GENERAL: Your letter of the 24th instant, covering reports of Major J. R. Brown, dated May 14 and 15, has been received. Dispatches from General Sully have also been received this morning dated at Sioux City, May 22. He reports the Tetons and Yanktonais concentrated near mouth of Heart River. They undertook a raid upon Fort Pierre, but were repulsed and followed across the Missouri, losing their blankets, robes, &c. The Missouri was rising at the date of his letter, with good prospects of a sufficient stage in the river. In relation to the Sissetons and Cutheads who propose to surrender and locate at Devil's Lake, I think you had best not insist upon their proceeding to Devil's Lake until we can have forces in that quarter. They can remain upon the upper Cheyenne or such other place as you may designate for the present. I think also that as soon as it is apparent that there is not likely to be any more small raids on the frontier, you had better send the large part of the mounted force at Abercrombie, re-enforced as far as judicious by mounted men from other posts, to make an expedition up the Cheyenne to the neighborhood of Devil's Lake, or beyond if no considerable enemy is found there. It will serve the better to leave the Red River Valley and to satisfy the peacefully disposed Indians that the Government is able to assure their safety. Whatever measures are necessary to control the half-breeds of the British colonies, as far as their hunting in this country and their aid and advice to the Sioux to war upon us are concerned you are authorized to put in force. Doubtless those suggested in your letter will be efficient. I hope we shall be able to supply post at Devil's Lake, and establish it from post at mouth of Long Lake. If not, and we cannot do otherwise, of course we must for the present abandon that part of the place. I hope, however, for better things.

I am, general, respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN POPE,

Major-General, Commanding.

P. S. - Brackett's battalion reached Sioux City.