HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF OREGON,
Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter., September 7, 1862.

Major J. S. RINEARSON,

Commanding Officer Camp Lapwai, near Lewiston, Idaho Ter.:

SIR: The object of this communication is again to enforce upon you the necessity of protecting the Indians from the aggressions of the whites. I am to-day informed by C. H. Hale, esq., superintendent of Indian affairs for Washington Territory, that the Nez Perce Indians have given their consent to the occupation of Lewiston and the other mining towns by the whites, but outside those towns it is especially desirable to enforce the provisions of the treaties and the United States laws intended for the protection of Indians in the Indian country. I desire you to afford to the Indian Department every assistance in your power for that purpose. In cases in which white men have squatted on the agricultural and grazing lands belonging to the reservation, contrary to the wishes of the Indians and the express prohibition of the agent, they should be removed. I desire you not to hesitate to break up any grogshops established in places which are evidently an encroachment upon the Indians and intended for the sale of liquor to the Indians. When the letter was sent to you from these headquarters on the 30th ultimo, in answer to your letter of the 10th ultimo, I was not aware that the grogshops spoken of were in places regarded as an encroachment on the Indians. I am satisfied that the military authorities, upon the request of the Indian agent, will be justified in removing or destroying any fences, houses, or improvements which constitute aggressions upon the Indians. You may also be asked to assist the civil authorities or the Indian Department in the arrest of men who have committed crimes and offenses against the Indians. You will, of course, be expected to exercise a sound discretion in such cases, as I do not wish the military power used for any purpose of oppression. In any offense against the Indian intercourse act the military forces may in all practicable cases be employed to assist the Indian Department. See section 23 of the act of 30th of June, 1834. They can be removed by your orders to Walla Walla, where they can be committed for trial before the civil authority. If a U. S. commissioner resides on the reservation who has authority to commit, your action should be, so far as possible, in obedience to his mandate, or of the marshal or acting marshal of the Territory. As stated in my instructions of the 18th of July, I have a personal interest in the Nez Perce Indians, whose friendship for the whites has for years been so conspicuous, and I shall therefore be much gratified if you can give them efficient aid and protection. Pray omit no fair opportunity of showing your wishes and intentions toward them. In any event which may possibly occur rendering a re-enforcement desirable, you must apply to Colonel J. Steinberger, commanding officer at Fort Walla Walla, for such aid, who has been instructed to furnish it. If he should himself at any time repair to your camp you will exhibit to him all your instructions and be governed by his orders. You may exhibit this letter, and also my instructions of 18th of July, to the Indian agent if you choose to do so.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

BENJ. ALVORD,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Volunteers, Commanding District.

P. S. -Please send me from time to time reports in detail of your proceedings.

B. A.