HDQRS. FIRST CALIFORNIA VOLUNTEER CAVALRY,
Las Cruses, Ariz., August 30, 1862.

LIEUTENANT: In compliance with verbal orders received from the general commanding the column, I have the honor to report that immediately after my arrival on the Rio Grande, July 4, I sent a scouting party down the river as far as the San Diego Crossing, for the double purpose of ascertaining of the enemy had pickets within that distance of my camp, and also whether the high stage of water in the river rendered it impracticable to move my command that far for the purpose of crossing, it being mu intention to follow and, if possible, overtake the retreating Texas under Colonel Steele. On their return they reported it impracticable to get to the crossing with wagons, but that the river was falling fast, and that in a short time - say one week - I would be able to accomplish my purpose of moving on Fort Fillmore, where a portion of the Texans were then quartered. I therefore determine to remain at Fort Thorn for a short time longer, to recruit the men and animals and to receive re-enforcements from Fort Craig, which I had asked for from Cow Springs, having sent an express from that point on June 28. On the 8th ultimo Captain Howland, Third U. S. Cavalry, with 100 men, arrived at Fort Thorn and reported to me for duty. I was now still more anxious to pursue the enemy, being disheartened troops, although they outnumbered me more that two to one. On the morning of the 10th ultimo I received a communication from Colonel Chivington, commanding Southern Military District of New Mexico, of which the following is an extract:

You will do all you can to learn the enemy's strength, position, and purpose, but General Canby does not design an advance from where you are until he can go in force. I am under orders to advance to Santa Barbara or thereabouts with sixteen companies of infantry and a battery of four 6-pounder guns and two 24-pounder howitzers and an additional cavalry force, to support the advance of General Carleton and to co-operate with the forces under him in the reoccupation of the valley of Mesilla.

Although this was not a positive order to remain where I was, yet it intimated too clearly the desire of the district commander to lead the advance on Mesilla and Fort Fillmore, that I felt exceedingly embarrassed as to whether I would be authorized in leaving Fort Thorn until the arrival there of Colonel Chivington; but on consultation with Captains Howland, Tilford, and Fritz I determined, unless more positively ordered, to remain, and to move down to the San Diego Crossing as soon as the water would permit. Accordingly, on the 13th ultimo, I sent Wagon-Master Black, with a party, to the crossing, to ascertain if it was yet practicable to get the train of thirteen wagons to that point. On his return the same day he reported favorably, and on the 15th ultimo I left with my command and arrived at the crossing on the 16th ultimo, a distance of eighteen miles. On the 17th ultimo I had succeeded in crossing successfully my command in a small boat, which I caused to be made for that purpose before leaving Fort Thorn. On the 19th ultimo I received from Lieutenant F. Van Vliet, acting assistant adjutant-general, the following communication:

I am instructed by the colonel commanding the district to inform you that your troops will not cross the river until further orders.

This was from Colonel Howe's acting assistant adjutant-general, he then being in command of the Southern Military District of New Mexico; but having crossed the river before its receipt, and having received supplies from Fort Craig, I determined to push on to Robledo or Dona Ana and there await his further orders, and so wrote him. But on my arrival at the latter place I dound neither forage nor grazing for the animals, and pushed on to Las Cruses, where quarters were found for the command arrival Las Cruses I at once made inquiry as to the whereabouts of the Texans, and learned from reliable authority that a por tion of them were yet at Franklin, Tex. ; that they were collecting at the point a large amount of Government property which has been by them secreted at different places on their march up the river, and that they designed selling it to a citizen of El Paso, Tex. This property I could undoubtedly have taken, and in all probability have captured the Texans then at Franklins, had I at once pushed on to that point; but the strong intimation not to leave Fort Thorn which I received from Colonel Chivington, and the positive order not to cross the river which I received from Colonel Howe, and my letter to him that I would await his further orders at Las Cruses, compelled me to remain at the latter place. Indeed, by moving farther down the river I would ave run counter to the expressed wishes of the district commanders of the Southern Military District of New Mexico, if not against their positive orders. On the 28th ultimo I received a positive order from Colonel Howe not to leave Las Cruses until further orders. Subsequently, while accompanying the general commandingon his march to Fort Quitman, I learned that Colonel Steele greatly feared he would be overtaken by the California troops, and in his hurried retreat burned a number of his wagons and destroyed a large amount of ammunition. I also learned that so much were his men disheartered and so thortoughly disorganized,een attacked by even a small force they would have at once surrendered. Certain it is an opportunity would have been given them to do so had it not been for the orders received from Fort Craig, for I should certainly have followed ad as certainly overtaken them before they left the river at Fort Quitman.

I am, lieutenant, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

E. E. EYRE,

Lieutenant-Colonel California Volunteer Cavalry.

Lieutenant BENJAMIN C. CUTLER,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Column from California, Franklin, Tex.