Lieutenant Colonel JOSEPH H. TAYLOR,

Chief of Staff and Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 2. Report of Lieutenant Colonel John S. Mosby, Forty-third Virginia Cavalry Battalion.

FEBRUARY 23, 1864.

MAJOR: I have the honor to report that about 11 o'clock on the 21st instant, having learned that a body of 180 of the enemy's cavalry were on a raiding expedition in the vicinity of Middleburg, I started in pursuit with about 160 men. On reaching Middleburg I found they had gone toward Leesburg via Mountville, and that they had come from Vienna, in Fairfax. Directing Captains Chapman, whom I left in command, to move down Goose Creek near to Ball's Mill, I went with a small squad to reconnoiter in person. On reaching Leesburg I discovered they had taken the Dranesville pike. After going about 6 miles in this direction they went into camp about 2 o'clock at night.

In the mean time i had ordered my command to Guilford Station, in order to keep pace with their movements and to be in a position to intercept them. After having ascertained where had encamped I moved my command out to the pike about 2 miles from Dranesville, at a point offering fine natural advantages for surprising an enemy. Distributing the different companies in positions where I could attack their front, flank, and rear simultaneously, we awaited the approach of the enemy. Soon the concerted signal-a volley from the carbineers under Montjoy--announced the time for attack. With a terrific yell, Chapman, Hunter, and Williams, with their brave commands, dashed on the unsuspecting Yankees. Surprised and confounded, with no time to form, they made but feeble resistance, and were perfectly overwhelmed by the shock of the charge. They fled in every direction in the wildest confusion, leaving on the field at least 15 killed and a considerable number wounded, besides 70 prisoners in our hands, with all their horses, arms, and equipments. Among their killed was the captain commanding. A captain and 2 lieutenants are among the prisoners, who belong to the California Battalion. Many of them were also driven into the Potomac. The gallantry of both my officers and men was unsurpassed.

My loss was 1 man killed and 4 wounded; none dangerously.

My thanks are due Captain Chapman and Lieutenants Williams and Hunter and Adjutant Chapman for their fidelity in executing every order.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,

JNO. S. MOSBY,

Lieutenant-Colonel, Commanding.