FORT CHURCHILL, NEV. TER., October 3, 1862.

Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Department of the Pacific:

COLONEL: I had a talk with Governor Nye several days ago. He was very positive that the secessionists are moving in this Territory, and thought there was a band of guerrillas out near Ruby Valley, &c. His information was gained from a man at gold Hill who is a secessionist and very rich, but being afraid of having his property confiscated, the Governor says, is giving him information which I think is all gammon. Probably one-third of the population of this Territory are secession sympathizers. None have as yet refused to take the oath of allegiance. There is considerable excitement at Carson, Gold Hill, and Virginia Cities about reported secession movements. I think it is helped along from the fact that there are a number of persons whose interest it would be to have a large number of troops at these places, and also those who sympathize with the rebels are always starting and helping along reports. There were a number of rebel bummers at these places without any visible means of support, who have gone off somewhere, probably some had means given them to go east. One party of secessionists of fifteen persons going east were attacked by the Indians on the Humboldt, and all but one supposed to be killed. I do not think from the information I cold gairn from the emigrants who came that route that secessionists have anything to do with the Indian difficulties there. There are Mormons keeping ferries in the neighborhood of the Indian troubles who sell ammunition and arms to them, and if there are any trains worth robbing the Indians are sure to be informed of it the these scoundrels, and probably a few white men who are rebels to all governments. The Indians have good arms, and on the approach of the troops retreat into the mountains, where they are inaccessible to an immediate attack. They ought to be completely wiped out, which could only be done by establishing a post there well provisioned and clotehd and armed in the winter time. The winters are very cold, but it is the best time to hunt them.

Very respectfully, yours,

A. BROWN.