Numbers 447.

Report of Lieutenant Colonel Robert R. Towners, Assistant Adjutant-General and Chief of Staff, of operations July 22.

HEADQUARTERS FIFTEENTH ARMY CORPS,
East Point, Ga., September 10, 1864.

COLONEL: In compliance with request of Major General John A. Logan, as commander of the Department and Army of the Tennessee, I have the honor to submit the following report of the part taken by the Fifteenth Army Corps in the action of the 22nd of July, 1864, while under command of Brigadier General Morgan L. Smith, who is absent from the field, and from whom no official report can now be obtained:

At 1 p.m. of July 22, by the death of Major-General McPherson, and the consequent assignment of Major-General Logan to command the Army of the Tennessee, the command of the Fifteenth Army Corps, devolved upon Brigadier General Morgan L. Smith, commander of the Second Division, by virtue of his seniority. At the time he was directed to assume command, the tactical formation of the corps was as follows; the First Division, Brigadier General C. R. Woods, commanding, formed the right of the line, connecting on the right with the Twenty-third Army Corps; the Second Division, Brigadier General J. A. J. Lightburn commanding (late Brigadier General M. L. Smith's division), formed the center, crossing the railroad and dirt road leading into Atlanta from the east, and the Fourth Division, Brigadier General William Harrow commanding, formed the left, connecting with the Seventeenth Army Corps on the left. Reserves were posted from respective divisions in the rear, and occupied the works advanced from early in the morning. The position now held by the advanced line of the command was the position of the enemy of the 21st, which he had abandoned during the night, and was occupied by the corps early in the morning, with instructions from the general commanding to place them in complete defensible position. The troops were engaged in obeying the directions, when the enemy was discovered by the signal corps to be moving to our left in heavy column, with evident intention of striking us in flank and rear and defeating us, thus securing the Augusta railroad and the transportation of the army let at Decatur, and at the other points in the rear. The troops of the Fifteenth Corps, already in position for defense, were notified that immediate action might result, and they became at once prepared for an assault from the enemy. At about noon the engagement opened furiously on the lines of the Seventeenth Corps, situated as above referred to, upon the immediate left of the corps. Almost at the same time a demonstration was made in our front by the enemy, but we were not assaulted in force for some time after. The Sixteenth Corps, which had been moved into line on the flank and rear of the Seventeenth Corps, becoming severely engaged and requiring re-enforcements Major-General Logan directed that they be furnished from the Fifteenth Corps, which at the time was not seriously engaged. Colonel Martin's brigade, of the Second Division, was accordingly detached and sent to the assistance of the Sixteenth Corps. This disposition materially weakened the line of the Second Division, which covered the main dirt road and the railroad leading into Atlanta, but it was apparently unavoidable and necessary. These dispositions had not long been completed when the enemy made a sudden and desperate movement against the lines of the command, intending to dislodge us. The attack on the center (which covered the dirt and rail road) and the right of the Second Division, joining the First, was in such before that the line at that point gave way and the guns and horses of De Gress' battery (H), First Illinois Light Artillery, four 20-pounder Parrotts, with two brass pieces (12-pounders) of Company A, First Illinois Light Artillery, were captured by the enemy. General Woods, commanding First Division caused the guns of a battery in his front to open upon the animals of the captured battery of De Gress and the troops of the enemy surrounding it, to prevent it being withdrawn from the position where it was captured, and immediately afterward, by direction of Major-General Logan (General Smith being at the time on another part of the line), organized a body of his troops from his reserves not in position, and led them forward to the recapture of the battery and that part of our line situated near his own, then in possession of the enemy. The movement of the troops, under General Woods in this action was pronounced splendid by General Logan, who witnessed it. It was made suddenly and with the greatest vigor, and struck, the enemy's left immediately in flank. General Woods directed it in person. The battery and line were retaken and the enemy compelled to retire precipitately. Captain De Gress was present to retake possession, of the guns and turn them on the discomfited enemy which he did with the most terrible effect, as they were moving off the field in confusion. It was no surprising, since the line had been so much weakened by the withdrawal of Colonel Martin's brigade to re-enforce General Dodge, commanding Sixteenth Army Corps, that he should gain advantage over this part of the line. The action resulted so quickly that re-enforcements were not able to reach the point until after the two guns of Company A, First Illinois Light Artillery, had been removed from the line and taken to the rear by the enemy. Lieutenants Smyth and Raub, of the battery acted with the utmost gallantry, using their pieces until the enemy had quite gained their situation, when Lieutenant Raub was killed instantly and Lieutenant Smyth taken prisoners. It was afterward ascertained from prisoners that Lieutenant Smyth was killed before reaching the rear of the enemy's lines.* General Smith, who was present at the time on the center of the line where Battery A was posted soon caused the troops to rally at that point and almost immediately retook the position abandoned by us a few minutes before with only the loss of the two guns mentioned.

The Fourth Division, General Harrow commanding, since about 1 o'clock had been hotly engaged with the enemy, who was pressing him at almost all points. As soon as the enemy was discovered in the rear of the Seventeenth Corps, he caused some of his artillery to be reversed and opened with a great deal of effect upon them, in some measure deterring their movement, and thus allowing the troops of the Seventeenth and Sixteenth Corps to be disposed to meet the approaching body of the enemy in the rear. General Harrow maintained all parts of his line, though at a severe loss. In the engagement with the Fourth Division the gallant and meritorious Colonel Lucien Greathouse, Forty-eighth Illinois Volunteers, nobly gave his life at the head of his gallant command, urging them to defend their position at every hazard. He was shot through the right breast, and almost immediately expired. Thus passed away a young, gallant, and fearless officer, a sacrifice upon the altar of perpetual Union. The dispositions of General Harrow during the engagement and the manner in which his troops were commanded, elicited the hearty commendation of Major-General Logan in my presence, as did likewise, the conduct of Generals Woods and Lightburn, commanding First and Second Divisions, respectively. The battle lasted with more or less fury until night-fall, when the corps rested in possession of all the positions held by the troops at any time previous and, with the exception of the loss of 2 guns, was completely victorious. The enemy were badly beaten at all points of our lines, and retired before night-fall from our immediate front.

We captured from the enemy 481 prisoners, and buried of their dead over 400 bodies in front of our lines. Many of their dead we no doubt secured by them before retiring. The losses of the corps were 118 killed, 414 wounded, and 535 missing; aggregate, 1,067, and 2 guns. The troops engaged immediately in front of the corps were ascertained to be the old corps of General Hood, commanded by Major-General Cheatham.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. R. TOWNES,

Lieutenant Colonel, Asst. Adjt., General, and Chief of Staff.

Lieutenant Colonel WILLIAM T. CLARK,

Asst. Adjt. General, Dept., and Army of the Tennessee.