Tucson, Ariz. Ter., October 14, 1862.

Lieutenant W. A. THOMPSON,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Mesilla, Ariz. Ter.:

LIEUTENANT: I have to report the arrival in Tucson at 9 p. m. on the 13th instant of Captain Fritz, First Cavalry California Volunteers, with train of wagons, forge, and tank, and express matter for this place, Fort Yuma, and California. In reply tot he communication of the colonel commanding the District of Arizona, dated 27th ultimo, concerning beef-cattle, loading the train, and sending troops forward, I have to say that I have no information relative to the present where-abouts of the 1,000 head of cattle sent from California by Mr. Beard or Mr. Rains, excepting that contained in a letter from Lieutenant Bennett to Major Fergusson dated at Fort Yuma, October 3, in which he incidentally mentins that the cattle have crossed the river. Neither Mr. beard nor the agent in charge of the band have vouchsafed any information as to the probable time of their arrival at Tucson. The contractors are some sixty days behind their time in the delivery of these cattle, and having been driven over so long a distance through such acountry they will necessarily require at least thirty days for rest and recruiting before they can possibly be in a condition to drive to the Rio Grande. Besides this, cattle in excellent condition can be purchased in any quantities required of rabout the same price as Beard's contract calls for. In view of these facts, it was the intention of Major Fergusson, had he been continued as chief commissary until the arrival of Beard's cattle, to ignore the contract and make the contractor pay the difference, if any, between the terms of his contract and what he would have to pay for good wholesome beef. I respectfully refer the colonel commanding the district to Captain N. S. Davis, First Infantry California Volunteers, chief commissary, for full information on this subject. I merely refer to it because under the existing circumstances as I have explained them, and with the knowledge that Captain Davis is accompanied by a band of some 300 head taken from here to sell to Government at private risk, it had been my determination not to send any of Beard's cattle on until I had communicated with the colonel commanding. I request that I may receive instructions on these points in full at an early day. There will be sufficient time before Beard's cattle can be in a condition to advance beyond Tucson. Captain Fritz informs me that the train he brought over is in a deplorable condition. Many of the mules gave out on the road, and he thinks that it willt three or four weeks' rest before they will be able to pull a load from here to Mesilla. I will have them examined by Mr. Allen, who is now here, and the colonel commanding may rest assured that they shall not be detained a day after they are in a condition to travel. In regard to sending forward troops, I respectfully ask the attention of the colonel commanding the district to my letter of the 2nd instant and to the district return for October 10. By these he will see that the garrison of this place is hardly sufficient for the purpose of affording protection to the supplies collected here and to fulfill the requirements of General Orders, Numbers 11, from headquarters Column from California, dated Tucson, July 21, 1862, organizing the District of Western Arizona and defining the duties of the commanding officer. Since the date of the return I have sent away two detachments of infantry; one of ten men to the Cerro Colorado mines, to relieve the detachment of Company E, First Cavalry, stationed there, who were ordered to report for duty to Major Fergusson as he passed that place on his way to Libertad. I have also sent Lieutenant Burkett, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, with a detachment of ten men to the Pima Villages, to disburse the Indian goods which have arrived there in payment of the Government indebtedness in the hands of Indians. This reduces my force for duty in town to about 100 men, which I consider inadequate to properly carry out the requirements of the order above mentioned. There seems to be some misunderstanding as to whether Company G, First Infantry, is or is not to be ordered on. Major Fergusson received orders from General Carleton to send on 200 mules and some broken-down wagons under escort of Captain Greene's company. As there was a much smaller number than that--in fact, but those now in charge of Captain Davis--Major Fergusson did not send Greene's company on, and I cannot now spare it without weakening my force very greatly. The send on that company will, in fact, leave me but twenty or thirty men here. I will, therefore, retain it until I can hear further from the colonel commanding the district. I desire again to urge the propriety of ordering Hinds back to this place for the winter, or that proper arrangements be made for winter quarters for his men at that post. He is not within my district, but having been there so long I fully appreciate the necessity of prompt action in this matter. Before I left I found a fire very comfortable at night and in the morning, and Captain Fritz informs me that it is really very cold now. If the supplies for the troops in the advance are drawn from New Mexico, I cannot see the necessity of maintaining more than a vedette post at that station. If Captain Greene is ordered forward it would certainly be very injudicious to have the depot of suppleis here guarded with the few troops which would be left unless Hinds is sent back. Captain Fritz informs me that he has no orders directing his movements, and none have been sent to me, but as Wellman is ordered to escort the train back I presume Fritz will be left here for some time. I have also to report that Major D. Fergusson, First Cavalry California Volunteers, started for the port of Libertad on the 10th with an escort of eighteen men of Company E, First Cavalry California Volunteers, commanded by Lieutenant C. P. Nichols. I have also to report that Captain S. P. Ford, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, tendered to me his resignation, which I sent to department headquarters direct on the 1st instant, with an indorsement strongly recommending its acceptance. I did not send it through the proper channels on account of the uncertainty of the communication, and because I deemed it would advance the public interests to have a speedy reply from the executive authority. I trust my action will meet the apprnel commanding the district. I have appointed Lieutenant W. B. Smith, First Infantry California Volunteers, to take the census of this district. In consequence of the scattered positions of the inhabited parts of the district, it will necessarily take some time before a report can be made on the subject.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

THEO. A. COULT,

Major Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, Commanding.