ROUND VALLEY, CAL., September 27, 1862.

Major HANSON,

Superintendent Indian Affairs, Northern District of California:

SIR: Since I came into the valley the Hat Creek and Con Cow Indians have left the reservation to return to their old homes in Butte County. They left in consequence of there being no food here for them. The to the valley, make the number of about 500 that have to be provided for this coming winter. There are but few cattle here that are in condition to kill. The quantity of grain on the reservation I think does not exceed 600 or 700 bushels. The potato crop is now harvested, but I am told it is short. This makes your supply of food totally inadequate to the number of Indians to be fed. Now, the question is, what is to be done? If these Indians are left in a starving condition they will undoubtedly kill the stock of the settlers, and that will naturally result in Indians being killed by the whites; and if a war of this kind begins no one can tell us where it will end. It may be very disastrous both to whites and Indians. Colonel Lippitt, of the volunteers, is here on a tour of observation; he looks upon this subject precisely as I do, and that is, that prompt and efficient action is necessary to avoid a great calamity.

Now, in answer to the question, "What is to be done?" I will reply that there are surplus grain and cattle enough in the valley belonging to the settlers to supply you through the winter, and they will sell it to the Government on credit, provided they can be assured of two things--first, that the money will be appropriated next winter to pay for the supplies thus furnished, and that provision will also be made for the purchase of their claims and improvements, and the appropriation of the entire valley to the purposes of a reservation and the removal of the settlers from it. When I saw you last you informed me that Mr. Sargent had promised to accompany you in a visit to the valley. Now, there is but one way to accomplish these objects, and that is for Mr. Sargent and yourself to come here and give the assurances I have mentioned, and the whole matter can, in my opinion, be arranged in a single day, and this is, I think, the only method by which anything can be done. The settlers are very anxious, and will do anything in their power to assist you in providing for the Indians this winter, provided they can look forward with some hope to a period when their difficulties with the Indians can be terminated. I wish, now, to impress upon you the importance of coming, in company with Mr. Sargent, immediately, while there is yet time to provide for the winter. It will do no good to come unless Mr. Sargent is with you. His presence is necessary to give confidence to the measures proposed. Write to him that it is all-important for him to come with you; but I would not undertake to explain to him these plans in writing. It will be better to explain them to him here, where he will have no difficulty in understanding what is necessary to be done. Wrige to me when you will come, so I can make arrangements to be here at the time.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

----

------