FEBRUARY 13-14, 1864.-Expedition from Helena up the Saint Francis River, Ark.

Report of Captain Charles O'Connell, Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry.

HDQRS. COMPANY G, FIFTEENTH ILLINOIS CAVALRY,
Helena, Ark., February 15, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to submit the following report of a scout up Saint Francis River, February 14, 1864.

I left Helena, Ark., at 5 p. m., February 13, 1864, in command of 100 men Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry, and 30 men Third Arkansas, African Descent. Proceeded up Saint Francis River on steamer Hamilton Bell; arrived at Shrimp's Landing at 10 p. m.; disembarked cavalry, and ordered the boat, under command of Captain-, to cross to an island and remain until daylight February 14; then proceed to Linden, on Saint Francis River, and await my arrival. I took raod leading to the hills; pressed guides. The night was very dark and rainy. Arrived at the house of Major Dawson; searched for the major, but did not succeed in finding him. I thin divided the command; sent Captain Wier with his company with orders to go around by the house of Major Dawson's father-in-law (object, to catch the major). I proceed to John McDaniels's; there awaited the arrival of Captain Wier and company. He arrived at 6 a. m.; had captured Captain Nall in arms away from his home before daylight; fed horses at McDaniel's, then proceeded on road to Madison; arrived there at 11 a. m. Sent Captain Wier with Company C on one road into Madison, while I with the rest of the command went in on another road, in order to prevent persons from leaving town. We captured 1 soldiers. I sent for all male citizens to report at the court-house. I learned from Dr. Pillow that Captain Stewart and 4 men were in town awaiting my arrival to be captured. I brought them to Helena to obtain their parole.

I was in Dr. Pillow's house conversing with him when I heard firing on picket-post. Immediately sent orders to Captain Wier to have his company mount and re-enforce the picket. I mounted my horse and started for the picket-post; saw 2 rebels running through the woods and pickets firing at them. I changed my course and proceeded on right-hand road leading toward railroad, with view of heading them off until Captain Wier with his company could arrive. When opposite them I ordered them to halt. One of them fired at me. I fired at the one in advance, while the rear one changed his course and went toward the railroad. I pursued the advancing one, and after passing the rear one, he turned and followed me, continuing to fire at me, I firing at the advancing one. At that time some of the men had come upon the right flank of the rear man. He turned and ran over the railroad to the left, pursues by the men. I followed the advancing one until he halted and surrendered, entreating me not to shoot again, as he was already wounded. I remained in charge of him until my orderly arrived; then sent him with prisoner to town. I then proceeded to the left over the railroad in pursuit of the other man. Saw his horse go by without a rider. Skirmished the woods to find him, as some of the men reported he had fallen from his horse; did not succeed in finding him. Returned to town with command, and discovered that I had captured Colonel Josey, Fifteenth Arkansas Infantry, wounded in the right arm. I learned from his that he and his adjutant had crossed the Saint Francis River opposite Madison and run in to my pickets, not knowing they were there. On coming to the picket he asked what command he belonged to. Picked told him the Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry. The colonel answered, "I will have to take you in, then;" to which the boy objected, ordering them to surrender. They attempted to draw their revolvers, and the boy fired at them. One then shot at the boy, wounding him in the left breast, upon which the other pickets came up and commenced firing. The rebels then retreated, trying to escape. I could not procure medical aid for the wounded men; pressed a wagon and had them conveyed to the boat at Linden.

The rebels having received information that I was in the country I deemed it unnecessary to go into their camp; therefore returned to the boat, and immediately started for Helena to procure medical attendance for the wounded. I arrived at Helena at 1 a. m., February 15; distance traveled, 135 miles. I succeeded in capturing 1 colonel, 2 captains, 2 lieutenants, and 5 horses, 3 revolvers, 1 carbine, and 3 guns destroyed.

Name and rank of prisoners: Colonel John E. Josey, Fifteenth Arkansas Infantry Regiment; Captain William Stewart, Greer's battalion (who remained in Madison to be captured); Captain R. C. Nall, Company F, Dobbin's regiment, was captured in arms away from home before day; First Lieutenant William Kelim, Harrison's [Griswold'] battery, Pratt's battalion; First Lieutenant Philander Littell, General Walker's staff; Private F. A. Weatherby, Company F, Dobbin's regiment; Private R. F. Hunt, Company A, Dobbin's regiment (who remained in Madison to be captured); Private J. L. Burnett, Company A, Dobbin's regiment (who remained to be captured); Private Porter Littell (conscripted by Captain Martin); Private William Cole, Groves' company, Biffle's regiment (a notorious guerrilla).

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

CHAS. O'CONNELL,

Captain Company G, 15th Illinois Cav., Commanding Scout.

Captain T. C. MEATYARD,

Assistant Adjutant-General.