[Inclosure.]

HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF NORTH MISSOURI,
Saint Joseph, Mo., May 31, 1864.

Major-General ROSECRANS,

Commanding Department of the Missouri, Saint Louis:

GENERAL: I have the honor to submit in writing a statement of the case of which I made mention to you when I was last in Saint Louis, as having been temporarily suspended by my order from further prosecution in the Boone circuit court.

The facts are as follows: Two negro men, the property of James I. Hickman, of Boone County, in the month of February, 1863, ran away from their owner and sought refuge within our lines at Jefferson City, and were employed by the quartermaster. The provost-marshal at Jefferson City, after investigation, issued to he said negroes, Henry and Henderson Bryant, certificates of freedom, in pursuance of General Orders, No. 35, Department of the Missouri, series of 1862. Subsequently the negroes were employed from the quartermaster by one Pearce Buffington as laborers in his saw-mill, and remained with him as laborers and received wages regularly until March, 1864, when they enlisted in the army of the Union, joining one of the regiments of African descent at Benton Barracks.

James I. Hickman, the former owner, brought a suit in the Boone circuit court, May term, against Pearce Buffington, claiming damages as follows: For their labor, $676; and for their value, $300 each, $600; total damages, $1,276. The grand jury of Boone County in February last found an indictment against the said Pearce Buffington for "unlawfully dealing with slaves," and he (Buffington) was summoned for trial on said indictment at the May term.

Mr. Buffington's case was but one among many of the same kind, and the people who had employed contrabands in that section, being all similarly involved, petitioned the military authorities to come to their relief. After a thorough investigation of this case I thought best to require the Boone circuit court to suspend the prosecution against Mr. Buffington until all the facts could be placed before you. I therefore directed the circuit attorney of Boone to suspend the prosecutions, both civil and criminal, until I could submit the cases to yourself. I did this with some reluctance, as I desire to aid not to obstruct the civil law, but as this was a point upon which there should be uniform action throughout the department, and one in which so many of our citizens are involved, I thought it wise to arrest the proceedings. Mr. Hickman was is, a secessionist, beyond a doubt. His slaves were free men by act of Congress, and had a right to work for whom they desired and receive wages therefor. The military authorities had given them papers of freedom, and all officers and men of the department were commanded to respect them and their said papers.

Thousands of citizens, quartermasters, and other Government agents have employed these fugitives from slavery and paid them their wages. All who have thus employed these fugitives from slavery are liable to prosecution both criminally and civilly under the statutes of Missouri. I have myself frequently compelled negroes to go out from my camps and garrisons and to go to work for farmers and others for wages. The Articles of War prohibit me from returning them to their owners. My own judgment and the best interests of the country, of the service, and the negroes themselves led me to remove them from idleness and crime to industry. I am even now enforcing that rule in Saint Joseph, Hannibal, and Macon. I wish the blacks, except such as can shoulder a musket in the service of the country, would all stay at home with their masters, but they do not. I cannot compel them to do so, but I can require them to work for somebody, and work they shall. It would seem wrong for me to permit persons who employ them to be prosecuted for so doing. I have the honor to ask your early approval of my action in the case of Hickman vs. Buffington, and definite instructions as to other similar cases now pending in the rebel counties.

I have the honor to be, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

CLINTON B. FISK,

Brigadier-General.