HDQRS. DIST. OF MINN., DEPT. OF THE NORTHWEST,
Saint Paul, Minn., April 12, 1864.

Major I. R. BROWN,

Special Military Agent, Fort Abercrombie:

MAJOR: Your several dispatches to 26th ultimo have been received, and the brigadier-general commanding awaits further information from you relative to the Sissetons and their movements and intentions. It is quite important to the bands who sincerely desire peace that they should lose no time in complying with the terms dictated by the Government as the only conditions upon which they can obtain it. Should the Sissetons or other bands tender their submission, they must at once proceed to Devil's Lake, where a proper location will be assigned them, and where they will be allowed to remain undisturbed so long as they act in good faith. A strong military post will shortly be established at the southwestern extremity of the lake, and the commandant will be instructed to protect the well-disposed Indians against molestation by hostile bands.

But in case of hostilities or depredations committed upon the persons or property of the whites by any of those attached to or belonging to bands who accept the conditions proffered, the offenders must be instantly delivered up to the military authorities, or the band itself will be held responsible. There must be no misunderstanding on the part of the Indians as to the part they are expected to perform if they desire a restoration of peaceful relations. They will hereafter be held to a rigid responsibility for any acts of violence involving the person or property of the whites, for it is repeated that while the U. S. Government has no wish to do injury to innocent individuals, the determination to secure the whites against possible danger from hostile savages is equally well fixed, and no means will be spared to effect that object.

So soon as you shall have concluded the special duty with which you were charged, and there is no longer any object in your remaining at Fort Abercrombie, you will report the fact to these headquarters without delay.

By command of Brigadier-General Sibley:

I am, major, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. C. OLIN,

Assistant Adjutant-General.