February 13.-Left camp at 6 a. m.,; weather cloudy, wind northwest. Traveled west three-fourths of a mile through a level bottom; crossed tributary of Strawberry, and proceeding one-fourth of a miles farther, crossed main Strawberry, and passed house of Widow Mosier; saw but little corn here, no fodder, 5 head very small cattle. Pushed forward and halted at crossing of Hookram and Batesville and Batesville and Salem Raod to await junction of forces under command of Captains Majors and Potts. Command formed junction at 8.30 a. m. At 10 a.m. started on Salem road, having sent two squadron for forage. After traveling one-fourth of a mile, crossed road running east and west and passed plantation of Mr. Jacks; no fodder, but little corn, and no cattle fit for use. One-half mile father, same road, passed Hycomb's house; no forage or cattle. One-half mile farther passed Bronw's and changed direction to northwest, taking road to Ash Falt, crossing at intervals of 1 mile each eight roads leading to the northeast. Pursed this route for 8 miles and crossed a small stream at Couch's house. No forage or cattle. One-fourth mile farther we came to Simpson's plantation, where we halted (it being noon), fed, and left the men get their diners. Sent out parties in different directions to search for information of the enemy. One of the parties returned, bringing as a prisoner Captain Adams, a noted character. No definite information was obtained. Left Simpson's at 4.50 p. m., and started for Widow Davidson's, on the Yellville and Jackson road, distant 6 miles; arriving there are we found that she had 30 bushels of corn, and we then took a northeasterly course for Phillips'. Whilst en route to Phillips' we captured a Mr. Smiley; he was riding a mule and had a McClellan saddle and bridle; he stated that he was going to Luneneburg to attend to some business before a Masonic lodge. Took him with us as a prisoner. Arrived at Phillips' at 7 p. m. and camped; plenty of forage for the animals. Rained during the night.