On Monday evening, February 1, 1864, I left Gallipolis, Ohio, for Point Pleasant, Va., there to load with lumber, and to proceed up Kanawha River Tuesday morning. After loading with lumber I was ordered back to Gallipolis that Monday night to await orders. I lay at Gallipolis until Tuesday evening, about 5 o'clock; was then ordered to Point Pleasant, Va., there to meet the general [E. P. Scammon.] He came on board about dusk. soon after coming on board the general asked me if I could run up that night. I told the general it was too dark and stormy a night to run farther than Red House Shoals, there being a dug chute there, and could not run that without it being light enough to see the walls. I insisted upon not leaving that night, as I remarked to him before leaving we could not run the dug chute unless it was light enough to see. The general thought we could make time by leaving that night. I told him we could leave at 1 or 2 o'clock in the morning, and make as good time as we could be leaving that night. Captain G. J. Stealey, assistant quartermaster, also did not wish him to start that night, and tried to persuade him otherwise. The general though best to go, and so ordered. I left the mouth of the river about 7 p. m. ; run to Red House Shoals and tied up at five minutes past 1 o'clock. After seeing the boat tied up I gave instructions to the watchman on the boat to have the pilot called at 2. 30 o'clock. After giving those instructions to watchman of boat, I went back in the cabin to retire; had some moments' conversation with the general. He asked what time I thought of starting from there. I told him just as soon as the pilot could see; if moon would rise and not cloudy we would leave at 2. 30 o'clock. The pilot was called at that time, and said it was entirely too dark and could not see. While waiting for it to clear up some, so as he could see, the boat was captured. A lieutenant and 13 men came on board with a rush and secured all arms that were in the boat. There were some soldiers aboard; to best of my knowledge, some 16 or 17. No sentinel or picket was placed on shore. At the time of the capture of the boat I had steam up, pilot was at the wheel, the mate on the hurricane deck, engineer at his post. On arriving at Red House that night could learn of no rumor or hear of any rebels. After some little time, with a guard over pilot and engineer, the boat was run over to Winfield side; remained there until about 10 o'clock. On landing on that side more of the enemy came on board, making them number 28. Were taken some minutes after 5 a. m.

About 10 o'clock, with the guard over pilot and engineer, the boat was ordered to run down to mouth of Hurricane Creek, and landed about half mile below at Vintreaux Landing. At twenty minutes after 12 o'clock the general and officers were taken ashore, and ten minutes' notice given to crew and all to get ashore; they were going to burn the boat. The boat was burnt at 12. 30 p. m. At that time is the last I saw of the general. After the capture of the boat, and during the morning, the general tried to induce the soldiers to stand and retake the boat, but could not.

The above are facts, as I will testify to.

C. REGNIER.