HDQRS. MILITARY DIVISION OF THE MISSISSIPPI,
In the Field, Tunnel Hill, May 10, 1864.

Major-General THOMAS,

Commanding Army of the Cumberland:

GENERAL: I propose to leave hereabouts one of your corps, say Howard's, the cavalry of Colonel McCook, and the cavalry of General Stoneman, to keep up the feint of a direct attack on Dalton through Buzzard Roost Gap as long as possible, and with al the remainder of the three armies to march to and through Snake Creek Gap and to attack the enemy in force from that quarter. You may at once commence the necessary preparations and give orders that the force left here is to be under the command of the senior officer, who will strip his command light, sending all spare wagons to Ringgold; that the cars run daily to this point with daily supplies, but the main stores to be at Ringgold; that the cavalry watch well the passes north of Tunnel Hill and at Ray's Gap, and that in case the enemy detect the diminution of the enforce and attack, it gradually withdraw in the direction of Ringgold, but defend that point at all cost; that a locomotive and construction train be kept here with orders and prepared if this retrograde movement be made necessary that the party shall take up at intervals rails, so as to make a repair train necessary to replace them; this that the enemy may not use the track to facilitate his movement in pursuit. A few rails should at once be removed at some point east of the tunnel that can again be put down when we want it done.

The pass at Snake Creek is represented as very narrow. Please instruct a division to be there to-morrow provided with axes and spades so as to widen the road as to enable the passage of wagons, also to facilitate the march of troops by roads and paths outside the wagon track. General Stoneman will be at Varnell's to-night, and by to-morrow night all his command will be in, so that we will calculate all to go to Snake Creek and close up on General McPherson during the day after to-morrow. As soon as General Stoneman comes I will cause him to relieve Colonel McCook on that flank, so that you may send him to replace General Geary at Ray's road. Let the troops move as much under cover as possible, wagons going around by Villanow and the troops by the Mill Creek road. General Schofield will either go round by Villanow or follow General Newton.
I am, &c.,

W. T. SHERMAN,

Major-General, Commanding.