EUREKA, July 10, 1863

COLONEL: Previous to my arrival from San Francisco Camp Curtis (near Arcata) had been abandoned. Unmistakable indications caused the people of that vicinity to fear hostilities from Indians and applied to me for protection. Deeming it important that a small force should be stationed at Camp Curtis, a detachment of nineteen men was detailed from Company C, at my instance, under command of Lance SErgt. G. W. Eastman, for that service, and proceeded there on the 28th ultimo. At that time there were but thirty-one men enrolled in Company C. On the day following fourteen more men were sworn in. (Above I use the expression "at my instance, " for the reason that I was given to understand by Colonel Lippitt and others at Fort Humbold that the recruits for Company C, were not subject to my orders previous to the complete organization of the company.) On the 29th ultimo I received a communication of which the inclosed is a copy. Immediately upon the receipt of the order I directed Second Lieutenant Middleton to proceed to Camp Curtis with eighteen more men of Company C, and from the thirty-eight then there to detail eighteen men to escort the train. My directions were complied with, and the escort was furnished under command of Actg. Sergt. E. W. Day. Not having been mustered into service, but feeling an interest in the men and anxious to be with them upon their first active duty, Lieutenant Middleton voluntarily joined the escort. On Wednesday, the 10th [?] instant, Lieutenant Middleton returned and reported to me that he accompanied the escort to Fort Gaston and back to Redwood Creek, nearly equidistant between Fort Gaston and Camp Curtis, when he left the train and came on to this place. HIs reason for leaving was that he expected to meet his captain and first lieutenant with recruits to fill the company from Trinity County. This morning I was informed that on Wednesday morning an attack was made upon the detachment escort by a large body of Indians. At once I proceeded to Camp Curtis to ascertain the truth, and from Private William Griffin and one of the packers, just in from the scene of action, gathered details as follows: At 3. 30 o'clock on Wednesday morning* the detachment was called by the sentinel, in accordance with the orders of Acting Sergeant Day, for an early start for Camp Curtis. The animals of the train were collected and the packers had commenced to put on the saddles, when the Indians opened fire from the woods and bushes on three sides within easy rifle range. At the first volley three or four of the soldiers were wounded and all sprang to their arms. The Indians were in strong force, numbering not less than seventy-five, and from that to 100, all being armed with guns, and many having both rifles and pistols. The fight lasted eight hours, when our men succeeded in routing the enemy with loss. The detachmnt retained possession of the battle-ground and are still there. The loss on our side was 3 men dangerously wounded, 1 severely, and 6 slightly. An express was sent as soon as practicable to Fort Gaston for Assistant Surgeon Phelps, who arrived in due time, escorted by six men from Company B. I was informed that Doctor Phelps had said that it was necessary for him to return to Fort Gaston, and to allow him to do so I employed a citizen physician to relieve him at Redwood Creek. I have given orders to have the wounded men brought to Camp Curtis at once if it be prudent to remove them, otherwise to remain at their present camp, guarded by a detachment from Company B. From all I can learn the detachment, under Actg. Sergt. E. W. Day, behaved well upon this occasion and deserves praise for bravely repelling an attacking party of well-armed Indians, so greatly superior in numbers. No commissioned officers for Company C have as yet been mustered into the U. S. service, but advices from Trinity County inform me that the captain and first lieutenant will arrive at this place within three days with recruits to fill up to the minimum standard. I am also infromed that Major Taylor is on his way from Siskiyou County to Fort Gaston with fifty or more recruits for Company F.

I have the honor to remain, most respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. G. WHIPPLE,

Lieutenant Colonel Commanding First Batt. Mountaineers, California Vols.

Colonel RICHARD C. DRUM,

Asst. Adjt. General, Hdqrs. Dept of the Pacific, San Francisco.