BATESVILLE, ARK., January 21, 1864

Captain H. C. FILLEBROWN,

Assistant Adjutant-General:

SIR: The detail of the Fourth Arkansas Mounted Infantry Volunteers that left the night before last (19th), under my command, returned this a.m. We arrived at Lunenburg about 10 a.m. yesterday morning, where I found Freeman's command, from 75 and upward in strength. I charged the town, driving them before me, seriously wounding 4 of them, and taking 2 prisoners. Not having but 44 men, and not being able to ascertain the real strength of the enemy, I concluded not to attempt to dislodge them from the position they had taken on the hills immediately beyond the town for fear of being overpowered.

The men that were wounded I found that I could not bring along, as they were all too badly hurt, and was compelled to leave them on the road, some 2 or 3 miles from the town. I could not learn their names, but suppose one of them to be an Elijah McMahon, a notorious character. The 2 that I brought in with me are named Sergt. W. D. Collison and Private, P. R. Young, members of Captain Cook's company, of Freeman's command. I also brought 7 good horses with McClellan saddles, which I captured from the enemy, together with one Government rifle-Enfield musket.

We succeeded in getting 9 recruits, with the promise of as many more in a few days. I could not learn anything definite about the programme of the enemy, but do not think they will remain in the neighborhood of Lunenburg uncles they are re-enforced. From what I saw of them I would judge them to be pretty well mounted and armed.

I stopped last night with my command at Widow Russell's, on Lafferty's Creek, whom I receipted to for 8 bushels of corn. I almost forgot to add that one of my command by the name of Williams was missing from the time of the skirmish. He was seen alive and well a few moments after it was over, but has not been seen or heard of since. He may probably find his way back.

In conclusion, I would, in justice to those under my command, say that they were cool and collected, and promise,after a little disciplining, to become good and valiant soldiers.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

T. A. BAXTER,

Captain, Fourth Arkansas Mounted Infty. Vols.