HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF OREGON,
Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter., October 15, 1862.

ASSISTANT ADJUTANT-GENERAL,

Headquarters Department of the Pacific, San Francisco, Cal.:

SIR: I start to-morrow morning for Fort Walla Walla and Camp Lapwai, Wash. Ter., on the Nex Perce Reservation. Agreeably to the wishes of the general commanding, verbally expressed to me in San Francisco, I had arranged (as my special orders set forth) for the return of all the parties in the field to Fort Walla Walla by the 1st of November, including the command at Camp Lapwai, Captain Matthews' company of Oregon cavalry. Congress has appropriated $40,000 to pay the expense of instituting negotiations with the Nez Perces for a part or the whole of their reservation. C. H. Hale, esq., superintendent of Indian affairs for Washington Territory, writes me on the 3rd and 10th instant that he contemplates going to Lapwai Agency in a few days. W. H. Rector, superintendent of Indian affairs for Oregon, accompanies him. They are appointed commissioners to discharge this duty.

They are now to hold, I learn, a preparatory talk with the chiefs; but the final council for a treaty will not be convened until next spring or summer. On reaching Fort Walla Walla, I will have to arrange for a command to stay at or near Camp Lapwai until the commissioners leave. As cavalry ought not to be on the march after the 11th of November, I shall probably order Captain Matthews' company at once to Fort Dalles, as contemplated in my letter to you of the 4th instant, and I shall probably order an infantry company to Camp Lapwai to remain there temporarily. Unless the winter is one of extraordinary severity, an infantry company can well remain encamped there until the 30th of November. Mr. Hale in his letter expresses the apprehension that there will be a 'serious outbreak of the Indians before winter. "

There is too much reason for dissatisfaction among the Nez Perces, but I cannot believe from all the intelligence I can gather from that quarter that they will rise. Evil-disposed and abandoned white men may, as is rumored, have endeavored to incite them to revolt. Fortunately, the main body of the Nez Perces have more principle, more intelligence, and more loyalty than those men have. Secession sympathizers, fiendish enough to with to see re-enacted the scenes in Minnesota, may exist there. But there is reason to hope that they would fall of their purpose. I have instructed the commanding officers in that quarter to arrest and hold subject to my orders any white man found guilty of such an atrocity. The Snakes may attack the outer mining camps south of Salmon River, but that must be expected. They are perpetually at war. Eagle of the Light, a Nez Perce chief who married a Snake woman, may have a small band of his people with him. It is rumored he is in affiliation with the Snakes. It may be so. He never assented to the treaty of 1855. On my return I hope to be able to report to you more satisfactorily on these subjects. I expect that no step will more conduce to quiet and satisfy the Nez Perces than the establishment next spring of a permanent military post. They have been habituated to look for protection from the military. Major Rinearson has, agreeably to my instructions, removed recently a good many intruders from their farming and grazing lands and broken up various grogshops, much to their satisfaction. I do not see how I can, unless there is a stern necessity, have a company there all winter, as no quarters have been erected. If I shall venture to promise to the Nez Perces the establishment of a military post next spring, I hope my course will meet the aproval of the general commanding.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

BENJAMIN ALVORD,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Vols., Commanding District.