HUMBOLDT MILITARY DISTRICT,

Fort Gaston, Cal., September 11, 1862.

SIR; In accordance with orders issued at this post on the 4th of September, 1862, I proceeded to Camp Anderson on the 5th instant with a detachment of seventeen men from Company F, Second California Volunteer Infantry, accompanied by a guide, taking two men from Camp Anderson, making my party to consist of 1 sergeant, 2 corporals, 16 privates, 1 guide, 1 packer and an Indian boy, or in total 22. I started at 3. 30 p. m. for the head of Redwood Creek, taking the trail to Pardee's, at which place I arrived at sundown took lunch, and continued our march by moonlight. About four miles from Pardee's discovered Indiasn sign, and encamped with the intention of making a more thorough investigation by daylight. On the morning of the 7th examined the trail and found the signs two or three days old, and three old camp-fires where the Indians had been roasting beef, killed a few days previous, the carcass of which was discovered by my party some miles back on the trail. Finding no Indians in the vicinity, resumed our march, and after marching fifteen or eighteen miles over an exceedingly rough and mountainous country, my command suffering much from the excessive heat, encamped on a small creek, called by some Rocky Creek, about five miles from where the old Weaver trail crosses the head of Redwood Creek. During the day's march discovered several old ranches and some fresh Indian tracks, apparently of squaws and children going down the ridge. Started my detachment at daylight and commenced to ascend the exceedingly steep mountain spur over ground covered with a thick growth of fern and filled with holes, making it very difficult for the men and animals to ascend. After marching up the hill for the space of an hour, and arriving to within 300 yards of the summit of the ridge, the men and animals being completely exhausted, and the pack train some 200 yards to our left, the Indians opened upon us with a heavy volley of musketry, killing the mule on which I was riding, the mule of the packer, and two of the pack-mules and wounding Sergeant Connell in the foot. The Indians were intrenched behind a natural barricade of rocks situated on the very summit of and at different intervals along the entire ridge. From the strength of the volleys and the rapidity of their firing I was satisfied that they trebled my command in numbers, and having the advantage of natural barricades was convinced that I could not dislodge them without the loss of the greater portion of my command. I accordingly ordered the men to gradually fall back into the timber some 500 yards distant, thinking the Indians would follow us, and by that means I might be enabled to save our provisions, the men's blankets, haversacks, and blouses, all of which were packed on the mules. On arriving on the edge of the timber land I deployed my small force and waited to receive the enemy. I found, however, instead of pursuing us, they endeavored to outflank and surround my party with superior numbers. Finding it impossible to secure the two remaining pack-mules with our rations, and having one of the men so badly wounded that I should be compelled to leave him in case I advanced without provisions or clothing, I concluded to fall back on Camp Anderson, keeping strict watch on the Indians, and being constantly prepared to receive them in case they renewed the attack. I arrived at Camp Anderson at 12 midnight after a tedious march of thirty-five miles. On arriving at Camp Anderson I immediately dispatched a messenger with a statement of the affair to headquarters at Fort Gaston.

On the morning of the 9th instant my messenger returned with a detachment of twenty-one men from Companies F and I, Second California Volunteer Infantry, under Sergeant Collins, with orders to return and endeavor to find the Indians. Being confined to my bed and unable to walk from overexertion the previous day, I dispatched Sergeant Collins with thirty-seven men on the morning of the 10th, with orders to proceed to Pardee's and send a messenger to Rocky Ridge Camp, some four or five miles distant, and the place appointed for rendezvous by special order of the 4th of September with a dispatch to Lieutenant-Colonel Olney or Captain Theller, and to await return of messenger for orders, or in case of not meeting either of the above-named officers at the rendezvous to proceed at once to the head of Redwood Creek and scout for the Indians until his five days' rations were nearly exhausted and then to proceed to Fort Gaston. In the affair above mentioned the men of my command behaved with great coolness, receiving the Indians' fire, and returning it whenever any of them showed themselves over the breast-works. From observations made I have reason to believe that the Indians lost one of their number from the well-directed fire of one of my men. The accompanying rough sketch of the field of action will more fully explain the above account of the engagement. * Being confined to my bed by sickness has prevented my making an earlier report.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,

W. H. NOYES,

First Lieutenant, Second California Vol. Infty., Commanding Detach. Co. f.

Lieutenant Colonel JAMES N. OLNEY.

2nd Cal. Vol. Infty., Commanding Northern Div., Humboldt Mil. Dist.