HEADQUARTERS,
Fort Walla Walla, August 17, 1862.

SIR: I have the honor to report that I received an express last night from Captain Currey with the report+ herewith inclosed, dated 15th isntant. The chief (Tenounis) referred to is the Indian reported by Agent Barnhart and Superintendent Rector as the leader in the foray against the settlers of Grande Ronde Valley. Inclosed (Numbers 1.) is also a copy of petition from the settlers in Grande Ronde Valley. The scout of Captain Currey anticipates the protection asked. The request for a company at that point I think unwarranted. If Captain Currey's operations have been prudent, and his recent action just and proper, it should have the effect to subdue hostilities and deter other infringement upon the rights of settlers. The presence, too, of the large force of cavalry eastward of this settlement and the knowledge of their return within a few months will no doubt have the effect to prevent the danger feared. I have no other intelligence than that furnished me by Captain Currey of his encounter with the Indians referred to in his letter. My instructions to him, both written and verbal, were to exercise the greatest caution and prudence in the performance of his duties, and I have no reason to believe the collision with these Indians was other than unavoidable. From information that I gather from intelligent friendly Indians here, there appears to be not more than twenty Indians disaffected in the Grande Ronde Valley, and no sympathy is had with them by the remainder of the Cayuse or other tribes. I received also last night an express from the acting agent of the Umatilla Agency, reporting that the affair of Captain Currey was known among the Indians under his charge, and that some uneasiness was felt. Under date of August 9 I advised you of the disposition of the force sent out under Captain Currey. Ten men with a sergeant were directed to be left at the reservation to relieve Lieutenant Hillyer and twenty men of the Fourth California Infantry. In order to give greater security to the public property on the reservation and insure the authority of the agent, I sent at daylight this morning Lieutenant Apperson, Company E, First Oregon Cavalry, with fifteen men of that company to re-enforce the small detachment left there. Inclosed is respectfully transmitted copy of the order directing the movement. I have much confidence in the discretion and prudence of Lieutenant Apperson in the duty assigned him, and doubt not that on the return of Captain Currey will be enabled to report to you quiet and submission among the Indians.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JUSTUS STEINBERGER,

Colonel First Washington Territory Infantry, Commanding.

ASSISTANT ADJUTANT-GENERAL,

Hdqrs. District of Oregon, Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.