EXECUTIVE OFFICE,

Olympia, Wash. Ter., October 23, 1862.

General B. ALVORD,

Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.:

DEAR SIR: I have received a memorial signed by 151 citizens of Lewiston expressing their conviction of the positive necessity of the company of soldiers now stationed at Lapwai being allowed to remain there all winter for the purpose of preserving the public peace by the influence of their presence; and in case of any disturbance or Indian insurrection, then by the advantage of the troops being on the spot they could more readily suppress and put down any such outbreak at its first onset much better and more certainly than if the same number of soldiers had to be sent for if stationed at Walla Walla for the winter. I have written to General Wright, and have requested him to consider the propriety of complying with this reasonable request of the citizens of Lewiston. I have also informed the postmaster at Lewiston, A. L. Downer, esq., that I have received the said memorial of 151 of his neighboring citizens and have forwarded their request to General Wright, at San Francisco. To. Mr. I. L. Downer I have stated that from my personal knowledge of General Wright, of General Alvord, and of Colonel Steinberger, I have every reason to believe that each and every one of said miltiary offciers will cheerfully carry out in all good faith everything best calculated to preserve the public peace and protect the lives and property of our whole population. With my sincere wishes for your deliberate considerations on the subject of my communication forwarded to you a few days since on the horrible murders and robberies committed upon overland emigrants along the Snake River road, and upon the quickest and surest method of dealing out immediate punishemtn upon the offenders,

I remain, dear sir, yours, very truly, &c.,

WILLIAM PICKERING,

Governor of Washington Territory.

P. S. --I am exceedingly anxious to see you and learn from your own lips all your views and opinions of and concerning punishing the murderers and robbers on Snake River Valley, and upon the best plan of preventing any more murders and robberies. I think I shall leave here on Tuesday morning next along with Mr. Hale, superintendent of Indian affairs, and I will try and get to Walla Walla if I find you are still in the far-off eastern part of our Territory, for I feel very deeply and very severely the imperative necessity of having everything done that can be done to have full satisfaction and compensation for all their past offenses and crimes and full indemnity and perfect security for the future.