February 14.-Weather cloudy, with a little rain; left camp at 6 a. m. and traveled in a northeasterly direction for 2 miles, when we crossed a spring branch and passed the house of a Mr. Wolf, who has a cotton-gin and press. There was no forage at this place and the land did not seem to have been cultivated during the past year. Pushing on 1 miles farther on the same course we passed Hall's plantation. He had no forage, but we saw 5 head of work-cattle. One-half mile farther we came to Smith's farm. There was a large amount of land cleared, but little of it had been cultivated, and they had only corn enough for bread for the family. There was no beef-cattle on the place. Took Smith along with us. Pushed on 4 1\2 miles farther over good road, and then turned to the eastward; passed Wright's house, in which we caught 2 of Freeman's men. No forage or cattle. Pursued this course for 1 mile, and then changed direction tot he northwest. Struck South Fork of Spring River; followed up the valley for 1 mile, and crossed a creek at Smith's Mill, where we halted for a few moments. Captured 1 of Freeman's men at the house. No forage here, but we saw about 20 head of your cattle, poor. At 10.20 moved on down South Fork, passing five plantations with not enough forage on either of them for a single feed for the animals of the command. At the last house saw 7 head of small beef-cattle. Halted at noon at Taylor's for five minutes. No forage there, but got 2 prisoners. Pushed on the Smith's, 9 miles southeast of Salem, where we fed. whilst the animals were feeding, sent out s clouting party of 12 men, who returned with 2 prisoners, said to belong to Freeman's command. At 1.30 p. m. moved off in a northwesterly direction, and halted for five minutes at Captain Bryant's farm. Found it completely cleaned out, and then took the direct road for Salem, where we arrived at 6 p. m. and halted. Sent the quartermaster with an escort to look for forage. At 6.30 moved in a southwest direction to Morris', distant 2 1\2 miles, where we camped for the night. Got but little forage at this place. During the night it rained quite hard.