Numbers 4. Report of Brigadier General Henry E. Davies, jr., U. S. Army, commanding First Brigade, Third Division, Cavalry Corps.

HEADQUARTERS FIRST BRIGADE, THIRD DIVISION, Stevensburg, Va., April 4, 1864.

LIEUTENANT: Pursuant to orders received this a. m. from division headquarters, I have the honor to forward the following report of the operations of my command on the recent raid to Richmond:

On the 28th day of February a detachment of the First Division, Cavalry Corps, commanded by Major Hall, Sixth New York Cavalry, reported to me, consisting of detachments from various regiments of that division, in all amounting to 34 commissioned officers and 697 enlisted men; a detachment of the Second Division, Cavalry Corps, commanded by Major Taylor, First Maine Cavalry, also reported to me, consisting of detachments form various regiments of that division, in all amounting to 19 commissioned officers and 472 enlisted men. I took on the 28th from my own brigade (First Brigade, Third Division) the men who were well mounted, amounting in all to 27 commissioned officers and 568 enlisted men, giving me when we moved a total of 80 commissioned officers and 1,737 enlisted men. From this force, before the movement of the main body of the expedition, I detached the following parties to report to Colonel Dahlgren: Second New York Cavalry, 100 men; Fifth New York Cavalry, 40 men; detachment Second Division, 150 men; making a total of 290 men. This detachment was under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel [Major] Cooke, Second New York Cavalry.

My command left their camps at Stevensburg shortly after dark on the evening of February 28, marched to Ely's Ford on the Rapidan, and crossed at that point; thence on through Spotsylvania Court-House, on the morning of the 29th of February, and across the Po River. Here a halt of about an hour was made to feed. The brigade then moved forward through Mount Pleasant, New Market, and Chilesburg to the North Anna River. This steam was crossed at Anderson's Ford, and I reached Beaver Dam Station between 3 and 4 p. m. Here the railroad depot, water-tanks, store-house, &c., burned, the telegraph cut, and the poles taken down for a considerable distance. An attempt was made to capture as railroad train that was heard approaching from Richmond, but taking alarm from the burning buildings at the station, it succeeded in backing out of the way before my men could reach it. A slight skirmish occurred here between my advanced guard and some 25 dismounted men of the enemy, who fired a volley and then made their escape in the woods. The command moved from Beaver Dam some 6 miles on the road to Guard Squirrel Bridge, and went into camp about 8 p. m.

At 11 p. m. Major Hall, Sixth New York Cavalry, with a detail of 450 men form the First Division detachment, was sent to make an attack on the South Anna railroad bridge, and between 12 p. m. and 1 a. m. of the 1st day of March my command moved out of camp and took the road to Richmond. Before reaching the South Anna my advanced guard met and drove from position a small force of the enemy's infantry, who appeared to be on picket duty. The South Anna River was crossed at daylight at a bridge about 2 miles west of the Richmond and Fredericksburg Railroad, and a short halt made to enable the division to close up. I then moved toward Richmond, passing Ashland Station about a mile to my left, and crossing the Richmond and Fredericksburg Railroad some 2 miles below Ashland. At this point the telegraph and railroad were destroyed, and a party sent, in charge of Lieutenant Whitaker, aide-de-camp on the staff of the general commanding division, to destroy a bridge on the line of the road, which object I believe was accomplished.

The brigade then moved forward to and crossed and brought in, and from that time we constantly fell in with small parties of the enemy, apparently sent out for the purpose of observing our movements, several of whom were captured.

At the bridge on the turnpike, where it crosses the brook, a few of the enemy were met, who immediately retreated on the appearance of my advanced guard, who made 2 or 3 prisoners, and several who had hidden in the woods came out and gave themselves up.

The first line of works that we was on the south side of the brook, commanding the bridge and the ford, but were not manned. After crossing the brook my column moved forward on the pike, encountering no resistance until about 1 p. m., when they came within sight of a line of earth-works, stretching to the right and left of the road 2 miles from the brook, from which the enemy immediately opened with artillery. The position that they occupied was a good me. The county for 1,000 yards in front of the works was open and perfectly level, affording no cover or position whence our artillery could be used to any advantage. The approach by the road was defended by a section of artillery, having a perfect range of the whole ground, and also enfiladed by the fire of two guns on our right and four on our left, and it was impracticable from the nature of the ground to maneuver cavalry on either side of the road except as skirmishers, the fields being very soft and muddy, and intersected with wide and deep ditches.

I ordered the Fifth New York Cavalry to deploy as skirmishers on the right and left of the road, and to advance as far as practicable toward the enemy, and gave directions for the rest of my command to form, while I went forward to examine the ground. i concluded that the best method of attack would be to send forward a strong party of dismounted men on the left of the road, where they could for some distance be kept out of view by some houses that stood on that side of the road, and when they were well engaged to make a attack down the road covered by our artillery. An attacking force of 500 men taken from the different regiments of the command, armed with carbines, was formed and placed under the orders of Major Patton, Third Indiana Cavalry, who was instructed to keep well to the left and make a determined attack upon the earthworks on that side, and to gain, if possible, a position where he could bring his fire to bear upon the enemy's guns. The rest of the command with the exception of the Fifth New York Cavalry, who were deployed and had been ordered to advance simultaneously with Major Patton, were formed ready to charge as soon as the diversion I had intended could be effected.

Major Patton advanced with his men, and as soon as he got within range the enemy in considerable force opened upon him with musketry. I was soon afterward directed by the general commanding division to withdraw my men and take the road to the Meadow Bridges, covering the rear of the division. Major Patton, on coming back, reported that the enemy had exhibited a considerable any certainty what number he observed. The enemy on the falling back of my command threw out form their works about 200 infantry skirmishers, who were checked by my rear guard and make no further demonstrations.

As we were moving on the road to the Meadow Bridges Major Hall, who had been detached the previous night to attack the South Anna railroad bridge, rejoined my command, reporting that he had found the bridge, rejoined my command, reporting that he had found the bridges strongly with infantry and artillery, and he could not accomplish the objected for which he was sent.

I moved down the road to the Meadow Bridges, setting fire to the railway trestle-work at that place and destroying the road bridges after I had crossed, and went into camp near Mechanicsville, picketing in my rear and on both flanks.

The enemy during the evening skirmished slightly with my pickets, and about 12 p. m. attacked the Second Brigade in force. My command at once mounted and formed, but the Second Brigade in force. My command at once mounted and formed, but the Second Brigade, unassisted, repulsed the attack made on them, and I moved to the vicinity of Old Church, which was reached about 4 a. m. on the morning of the 2nd of March. About 8 a. m. I moved my command about 1 mile beyond Old Church, and there took up a position. The enemy's cavalry in small force appeared, but were instantly put to flight by a squadron of the First Maine Cavalry, which drove them at the first attack. I then moved on the the vicinity of Tunstall's Station, where the brigade encamped for the night. While on the road this day I was overtaken by Captain Mitchell, Second New York Cavalry, who brought in about 250 of the men who had been sent on the expedition intrusted to Colonel Dahlgren.

The next morning, March 3, I moved on the Williamsburg road, meeting a short distance from the station a portion of the command sent up by Major-General Butler to New Kent Court-House. I marched through New Kent Court-House that day as far as the Twelve-Mile Ordinary, where I went into camp for the night.

The following day, March 4, I marched through Williamsburg to Yorktown, where I went into camp in the afternoon.

On Saturday evening, March 5, pursuant to orders from division headquarters, I ordered Major Hall with 400 men to march to Newport News, there to embark on transports for Portsmouth, Va., while with 400 more men of the command I embarked at Yorktown on transports for Portsmouth. The whole command reached Portsmouth about 11 a. m. on Sunday, March 6, and after moving out from the town it was found that the emergency that required our presence no longer existed. I therefore went into camp near Portsmouth that evening.

The following two days, March 7 and 8, were occupied in shipping the men and horses back to Yorktown, where I returned on the afternoon of the 8th of March.

Wednesday, March 9, I received orders to embark my brigade on transports to return to the Army of the Potomac, landing at Alexandria. I reached Alexandria on the morning of March 10, and the same day the Fifth New York Cavalry and Ransom's battery, with detachments from other regiments, arrived there.

March 11, the Fifth New York Cavalry started for Stevensburg, which they reached on the evening of the 12th.

On the 11th the whole of the Second New York and Eighteenth Pennsylvania Cavalry and a portion of the detachment from the Second Division reached Alexandria. These men, together with the battery, were sent forward to the Army of the Potomac on the 12th of March, under command of Colonel Bryan, Eighteenth Pennsylvania Cavalry, and reached their camps on the morning of the 14th. The remainder of the Second Division detachment reached Alexandria on the 12th, and moved out to rejoin their command on the morning of the 13th, and the detachment from the First Division reaching Alexandria on the 13th moved on the 14th to their former headquarters.

I believe that the above will include all the movements of the force under my command on the late expedition.

I have already forwarded to division headquarters nominal and numerical lists of killed, wounded, and missing, as well as of property, &c., lost and captured.

Respectfully submitted.

H. E. DAVIES, JR.,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.

Lieutenant E. W. WHITAKER,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.