HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE PACIFIC,
San Francisco, October 4, 1862.

Brigadier General L. THOMAS,

Adjutant-General U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.:

GENERAL: I am still without late advices from Brigadier-General Carleton. I have received dispatches from Major D. Fergusson, First Cavalry, commanding in Arizona, dated at Tucson, 18th of September. He had heard nothing from General Carleton since the 4th of August. General Carleton's force is deemed ample, in co-operation with that previously in New Mexico, to hold securely that country; or even, should it be deemed advisable, to advance into Texas and create a diversion in our favvor, should it be the design of Government to re-establish our authority in that State at once, by landing a force on its southern borders. I learn (unofficially) that Brigadier-General Canby has been withdrawn from New Mexico; if so, I presume that General Carleton is now in command of all the troops in that country. Colonel Connor, Third Infantry, having established a post at Ruby Valley, is now on his march to Salt Lake, and on his arrival there will establish himself near the city, as I have already advised you. Affairs in the District of Oregon, under the management of Brigadier-General Alvord, are quiet. In the District of Humboldt the Indian difficulties still continue. However, nearly 1,000 Indian shave been captured or induced to surrender to the military authorities and have been transferred to the reservations. Arrangements have been made to so dispose of the troops as to afford the greatest possible security to the settlements. I am happy to say that quiet prevails generally throughout the department; yet we must not disguise the fact that there is a large element of opposition on this coast, and that it is only by watchfulness, prudence, and prompt action in case of emergency that we can expect to preserve the peace. I telegraphed to you a few days since asking that 20,000 stand of small-arms and equipments might be sent here by the first steamer. I hope they will be sent; occasion might arise rendering it necessary to use them. I would most respectfully request that authority be given for raising another volunteer regiment of infantry in California for service here, as I do not think it would be prudent to send beyond the limits of the department any more troops raised on this coast. I have deemed it proper to prohibit the transmission through the United States mails and post-offices, and express, of several newspapers published in California and Oregon. They were violent in their denunciations of the Adminstration, of its policy, and the war, thereby discouraging enlistments in the army. You can rest assured that I shall take no measures to disturb the quiet of this country unnecessarily; but if it becomes necessary to strike, I shall be prepared to do so effectively.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

G. WRIGHT,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Army, Commanding.