HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE PACIFIC,
San Francisco, October 17, 1862.

Brigadier General LORENZO THOMAS,

Adjutant-General U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.:

GENERAL: I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of a communication addressed to these headquarters by Brigadier General James H. Carleton, commanding Column from California, dated at Santa Fe, N. Mex., September 20, 1862. * General Carleton forwarded with his dispatches copies of his correspondence with Brigadier General E. R. S. Canby, then commanding the Department of New Mexico, and other officers serving in that quarter. I have selected out such as I deemed necessary and proper to forward to the Headquarters of the Army, viz: First. Copy of a communication from Lieutenant Colonel E. E. Eyre, commanding First Cavalry California Volunteers, dated at Las Cruces, Ariz., August 30, 1862. * Second. Copy of a communication from Brigadier General James H. Carleton, U. S. Army, to the commander of the C. S. troosp at San Antonio, Tex., dated headquarters District of Arizona, Franklin, Tex., September 1, 1862. * Third. Copy of a communication from Captain E. D. Shirland, First Cavalry California Volunteers, to the acting assistant adjutant general of the Column from California, dated at Camp on the Rio Grande, September 2, 1862. *

To communication of Brigadier-General Carletonw ill fully inform the General-in-Chief of the movements of the Column from California up to the 20th of September. I am happy to say that the troops from this department have successfully accomplished all that I proposed to do when I asked authority to organize the expedition. The hardships endured in crossing the deserts, the subordination and good conduct of the officers and men of General Carleton's command are fully set forth by the general. This expedition I organized and prepared in Southern California during a winter and spring unprecedented for severity. Its advance was delayed, on account of the roads being impracticable for wagons, until late in the season. I then launched forth this column on the dreary desert with perfect confidence in success. I knew the officers and left assured that, with the indomitable perseverance, energy, and foresight of General Carleton and those under his command, there was no such word as fail. General Carleton speaks in glowing terms of the conduct of several of his officers and asksx for their promotion. I most cheerfully united in that recommendation. Although they have not been engaged in any brilliant action with our enemies, yet the hardships they have endured without a murmur and the zeal they have manifested in the discharge of all their duties will, I hope, be recognized by the Government, and that they may be promoted for meritorious services.

With great respect, your most obedient servant,

G. WRIGHT,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Army, Commanding.