HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE PACIFIC,
San Francisco, October 25, 1862.

Brigadier General L. THOMAS,

Adjutant-General U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.:

GENERAL: A few days since I had an interview with His Excellency J. W. Nye, Governor of Nevada Territory. It is well known that many persons in the Territory of Nevada sympathize strongly with the rebellion, and the character of many of the emigrants recently arrived in that country has only added to the disloyal element previously there. The Governor, anxious for the welfare of the Territory, came to consult with me as to the best means to be adopted to crush any attempt of the disaffected to raise the standard of rebellion. The Governor had already organized and armed four companies of loyal men at different points in the Territory, and he proposed to organize two more of infantry and one of cavalry, composed of good men and true, who would be always ready to meet any emergency which might arise. To enable the Governor to carry out his patriotic views I have placed at his disposal 100 stand of small-arms and equipments, also such arms and equipments for a company of cavalry as could be spared from our limited supply. For the same purposes I some time since placed at the disposal of His Excellency Governor Stanford, of the State of California, 500 stand of small-arms, to enable him to organize and arm companies of good Union men at certain points in the State. The Governors are particularly careful that none but men of undoubted loyalty shall enter the companies, and the very fact of having such organizations of men well armed and ready to act will go far to prevent any demonstrations of disloyalty. I have placed these arms at the disposal of the Governors without any special authority from the General-in-Chief or the War Department, not doubting that my acts would be approved, having for their object the maintenance of the peace and quiet of the country.

I beg here to renew my former request that 20,000 stand of small-arms and quipments may be sent to this coast at an early day; they may be needed, and remote as we are from the source of our supplies, prudential considerations demand that in an emergency we should be able to call out and arm 30,000 men at once. I would also respectfully recommend that another regiment of infantry be raised in this State, and that the First Cavalry Regiment of California Volunteers be increased to twelve companies. It will be recollected that this regiment, now consisting of only five companies, comanded by a lieutenant-colonel, was originally organized for special service with the command designated to protect the Overland Mial Route; subsequently its destination was changed to Southern California; it is now in Arizona and New Mexico, having formed a part of the Column from California under Brigadier-General Carleton. Owing to the vast extent of this department, and the detaching of large forces to New Mexico and Utah, the increase herein recommended is deemed absolutely necessary. I am compelled in the present state of our affairs to post troops at a great number of points, and it is highly important that they should be sufficiently strong to command respect for the Government of the United States.

Very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

G. WRIGHT,

Brigadier-General, U. S. Army, Commanding.