Captain R. S. SEABURY,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 18. Report of Colonel Levin Crandell, One hundred and twenty-fifth New York Infantry.

HEADQUARTERS 125TH NEW YORK VOLUNTEERS,
February 9, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to make the following report of the part taken by the One hundred and twenty-fifth Regiment New York Volunteers, in the reconnaissance made by the Second Corps on the 6th instant:

Orders to be in readiness to march at 7 o'clock were received on the morning of the 6th instant at about 4. 30 o'clock. The regiment was in readiness and took up the march promptly at 7 o'clock; arrived at the cavalry camp, near Morton's Ford, on the Rapidan, at 10. 30 a. m. ; there was ordered to furnish 100 men to lead as skirmishers across the ford. One hundred non-commissioned officers and men were furnished, together with the following commissioned officers, who accompanied the skirmishers, to wit: Captain John Quay, Lieutenant E. B. Hull, Lieutenant B. G. Barto, Lieutenant E. O'Connor, Lieutenant M. B. Miller, and Lieutenant E. S. P. Clapp. The skirmishers advanced and crossed Morton's Ford at 11 o'clock, gallantry led by Captain R. S. Seabury, assistant adjutant-general, who was the first to cross the stream. The enemy's pickets, to the number of 60 to 80 men, lay intrenched on the opposite bank of the stream, within short range of the ford. They opened a brisk fire on the skirmishers, but effected nothing. Immediately on crossing the ford they captured and took 27 men and 2 commissioned officers prisoners; were then immediately deployed and advanced, skirmishing to the left of the ford, driving the enemy into their intrenchments, and remained in that position, skirmishing briskly at intervals, from that time until 1 o'clock the next morning, when they were ordered to withdraw from the line and recross the ford, which was done in good order. That portion of the regiment not detached as skirmishers was kept in supporting distance of the line until about dusk, the time of the general attack, when it moved forward to the skirmish line and took part in the skirmish.

Four were slightly wounded; not so as to disable them in any way, however. Both officers and men behaved admirably. In not a single instance can my exceptions be taken to the conduct of either officers or men.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

LEVIN CRANDELL,

Colonel 125th Regiment New York Volunteers.