HDQRS. DEPT. OF S. CAROLINA, GEORGIA, AND FLORIDA, Charleston, August 22, 1864.

GENERAL: I have the honor to submit the following report of miliary operations in the vicinity of this place from the 1st to the 10th ultimo:

On the 1st ultimo, three brigades--Hatch's, Saxton's, and Birney's--sailed from Hilton Head and united with the troops on Morris and Folly Islands and a portion of the naval force in an attack on the works defending this city. The land force, estimated at 8,000, was commanded in person by Major-General Foster, and the naval force by Rear-Admiral Dahlgren.

The general plan of the enemy seems to have been to make, with the troops from Morris and Folly Islands and the navy, such a demonstration on our works on the south end of James Island as to induce us so to weaken the east lines on that island as to enable them to seize the important work, Fort Johnson. At the same time a column was to move up John's Island and take positions from which our works on James Island could be enfiladed and taken in reverse, and where batteries could be established nearer the city than any they now have . The movement on John's Island was to be covered and aided by a demonstration in force on the Savannah Railroad in the vicinity of Adams' Run.

Accordingly, at daydawn on the morning of the 2nd, several regiments crossed over from Folly and Morris Islands to the south end of James Island, and after a sharp skirmish drove in our pickets and captured 2 field pieces. Two monitors and several gun-boats came up the Stono above Legareville and opened a heavy fire on our works. At the same time Hatch's and Saxton's brigades landed on Seabrook Island and Birney's sailed up the North Edisto and landed at White Point. All of our available force for the defense of Charleston was immediately concentrated on James Island. The First Georgia Regulars and 300 men of the Fourth Georgia Cavalry (dismounted), and three companies of the Third South Carolina Cavalry (also dismounted) were ordered from Savannah and its vicinity to John's Island.

At daydawn on the 3rd, about 1,000 of the enemy in barges made an attack on Fort Johnson. They were handsomely and thoroughly repulsed by the garrison of Fort Johnson, under Lieutenant-Colonel Yates, First South Carolina Artillery, with the loss to the enemy of 140 men, including a colonel and 5 other commissioned officers captured and many killed and wounded. At the same time General Birney advanced his command from White Point toward Adams' Run, but had marched less than 6 miles when they encountered at King's Creek a battery, supported by cavalry, with General Robertson had placed there, and after an hour or wo of skirmishing Birney fell back to White Point, re-embarked his troops, and rejoined Hatch and Saxton, who in the mean time had crossed form Seabrook to John's Island and moved slowly up toward Charleston, our very small force on John's Island retiring skirmishing; and on the 7th, repulsed quite a formidable effort to drive them off, inflicting upon the enemy comparatively heavy loss. But the enemy nevertheless succeeded in gaining a position from which they could enfilade our works on James Island.

It was manifestly of the utmost importance that they be dislodged and driven from John's Island. The force at my command was so small, and from the nature of the service manning heavy batteries on a long line of important works, that I could not concentrate a sufficient force for the purpose without endangering the most important line of works for the defense of the harbor, for, having command of the water and ample steam transportation, the enemy could in a few hours change their point of attack from John's to James or Sullivan's Islands or the Edisto. I had reduced the force on Sullivan's Island to the lowest point I thought advisable to re-enforce James Island, and every available man along the line of the Savannah Railroad had been ordered to John's Island.

As soon as the movement of the enemy was known on the 2nd, I telegraphed General Johnston asking for re-enforcements, and repeated my request on the 4th, and also telegraphed the War Department and General Whiting asking for re-enforcements, and to Brigadier-General Chesnut asking for reserves. General Johnson sent me two small regiments (the Fifth and Forty-seventh Georgia) and General Whiting sent me two companies of artillery. I could obtain no State reserves.

When the troops sent by Generals Whiting and Johnson arrived Colonel Georgia P. Harrison was ordered to carry his own regiment, the Thirty-second Georgia, the Forty-seventh Georgia, the Forty-seventh Georgia, and Bonaud's Georgia battalion to John's Island and to report to Brigadier-General Robertson, commanding that district. With the force thus collected, though not more than a third of the enemy's force on the island, it was intended to attack the enemy on the morning of the 8th, but the steamer sent through Wappoo Cut to transport the troops getting aground the attack was delayed.

At daydawn on the 9th, the attack was gallantly made, Colonel Harrison commanding the advance column, composed of the Thirty-second and Forty-seventh Georgia Regiments and Bonaud's Georgia battalion, and the enemy was driven from one line of defensive works, but rallied behind a second line and maintained their position until late in the evening, when they withdrew and embarked on transports in the Stone, and on the 10th, the enemy's monitors and gun-boats (the naval force had been increased to twenty-two vessels of all classes) kept up heavy fire on our picket-line and batteries, especially Battery Pringle, which replied with spirit and accuracy, crippling and driving out of action on e of the monitors. But the active operations of the enemy were abandoned after their reverse on John's Island on the morning of the 9th.

The details of these operations are given by the reports, which are herewith forwarded, of Brigadier-Generals Taliaferro, commanding on James Island, and Robertson, commanding on John's Island. I send also a copy of General Foster's confidential circular, found on the field, directing the sailing of the expedition, and also a letter* dated 5th of July and published in the New York Tribune, giving an account of the enemy's operations to that date. From them it will, I think, be seen that the expedition was one of considerable magnitude, form which much was expected. Officers captured concur in representing that the expedition was well and carefully considered and planned, and was confidently expected to result in the capture of Charleston. That it failed is due, under Providence, to the gallantry and good conduct of our officers and men.

Generals Taliaferro and Robertson, whose districts were attacked, were untiring in watchfulness and efforts to defeat the plans of the enemy, and they were admirably seconded by the officers and men. Colonel George P. Harrison is deserving of special commendation, first, for driving back the enemy's line on James Island, and, secondly, for his gallantry and good conduct in the engagement on the morning of the 9th. General Ripley's line were not attached, but they were constantry exposed to attack, and the reduction of his forces to re-enforce General Taliaferro imposed greatly increased vigilance on him and his officers, which was met by them with alacrity. My staff officers performed their various duties with zeal and intelligence.

I am much indebted to Flag Officer J. R. Tucker for his ready and efficient co-operation. Besides his vigilance in watching the approaches to the harbor, he placed at my disposal a naval battalion, armed as infantry, Lieutenant Dozier, C. S. Navy, commanding, which served well and faithfully in the works on James Island; and he also re-enforced Fort Johnson with a small detachment.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,

SAM. JONES,

Major-General, Commanding.

General SAMUEL COOPER,

Adjt. and Insp. General, C. S. Army, Richmond, Va.