HEADQUARTERS HUMBOLDT MILITARY DISTRICT,
Fort Humboldt, October 19, 1862.

Lieutenant-Colonel DRUM, U. S. Army,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Department of the Pacific:

COLONEL: In connection with my official report of the 13th instant I deem it my duty to lay before the department commander the following facts, learned by me in my recent visits to the Round Valley and Mendocino Reservations: For upward of a year that Mr. Short has been the supervisor of the Round Valley Reservation no funds that ever have been received from the superintendent, Mr. Hanson, for the payment of his salary, or that of the physician employed, or of any other of the employes, nor for the necessary expenses of the reservation. Mr. Robinson, one of the employes, told me that Mr. Short had already been obliged to use from $4,000 to $5,000 of his own private funds for these expenses. The grain crops of this year have been destroyed, and there are but few cattle left for the consumption of the 1,500 Indians stated to be remaining on the reservation. There are no means to purchase any supplies, and there is great danger of the Indians starving to death during the coming winter. To remedy the evil--the credit of the Indian Bureau being entirely exhausted--I suggested to Mr. Short to get some of the settlers to furnish the complement of supplies needed, they consenting to look for their payment to a special act of Congress to be passed for the purpose at the coming session, the Honorable Mr. Sargent to be requested to visit the reservation immediately in company with Mr. Hanson, in order that he might verify personally the necessity of the purchase and the justice of the claims, and satisfy the settlers that such an act would be passed. Mr. Short accordingly wrote to Mr. Hanson to have this done. In reply to the repeated application for funds, Mr. Hanson has always answered that no remittance had yet been made to him from Washington. It was suggested to me that al the settlers would be willing to seel out to the Government, leaving the whole valley, containing some sixty square miles, for an Indian reservation. One great objection to this scheme is that the valley has not river or runnign strea, which is everywhere almost an absolute necessity to the Indians for fishing and for bathing. But the principal objection is one that applies also to every reservation in the district, and I consider it a fatal one, that al the turbulent Indians, those whom it is one of the chief objects of the reservation system to withdraw from contact with the whites, anever stay on these reservations unless compelled to by force, adn that to prevent their escaping from Round Valley it would require an army of 100,000 men. On the Mendocino Reservation there are said to have been formerly several thousand Indians. Some months since the post commander at Fort Bragg reported to me that there were then about 1,000, but on my visit there I was informed that there are now only about 280 left. They go when they please; it is seldom ever known whent hey leave. The reservation contains forty square miles, and to prevent the Indians from escaping from it, roi from any other ofv the reservations, it would require a chain of sentinels to be kept posted entirely around it. Mr. Whipple, the supervisor of the northern station, told me that Mr. Hanson admitted he had received $14,000 from Washington for the payment of the employes and other expense of the Round Valley and Mendocino Reservations, but state that he had been obliged to spend all this remittance on the Smith's River Valley Reservatino (the purchase of which has not yet been sanctioned by the Government). Of this amount Mr. Whipple obtained from him $1,000, leaving some $6,000 due him and the employes, besides $2,000 to $3,000 owing to traders for supplies furnished.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

PITT,

Colonel Second Infty. California Vols., Commanding Humboldt Mil. Dist.