Captain W. H. ANDREWS,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 15. Report of Brigadier General Joshua T. Owen, U. S. Army, commanding Third Brigade.

HDQRS. THIRD Brigadier, THIRD DIV., SECOND ARMY CORPS,
February 9, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to report that in obedience to orders from division headquarters I left camp at 7 a. m. on the 6th instant and marched in the direction of Morton's Ford, arriving within a half a mile thereof at 9. 35 a. m. I halted my troops and massed them in column by regiments, concealed from the enemy's pickets, and awaited further orders. At 10. 30 a. m., by direction of the general commanding the division, I moved toward the river, under orders disposed, but not to press him too hard, as it was not desired to bring on an engagement, but simply to make a demonstration. I threw forward 300 of my best troops, under command of my assistant adjutant-general, Captain Seabury, with directions to cross the river, drive the enemy's skirmishers from their rifle-pits, and advance toward the heights beyond, deployed at such intervals as circumstances might require. As the head of the advance column approaches the place of crossing some 80 of the enemy's pickets opened a rapid but ill-directed fire upon it. A landing on the other side was effected, and the rifle-pits immediately attacked and carried with slight loss. The enemy retreated in confusion, leaving in our hands as prisoners 28 privates, 2 lieutenants, and a number of small-arms.

I immediately followed after with the main column. I advanced toward Morton's houses located upon high and commanding positions, in the direction of the enemy's works, my skirmishers meanwhile driving the enemy rapidly before them. Having gained these positions I made my arrangements to hold them and halted the line of skirmishers. Immediately thereafter the enemy advanced a stronger line of skirmishers, and began rapidly to concentrate his troops immediately in my front, and opened a vigorous fire both of infantry and artillery.

At 12. 30 p. m. I telegraphed across the river that a heavy column of infantry was moving into position toward my left, and requested that another brigade might be sent across. I changed the disposition of my troops so as to counteract the enemy's apparent intention to turn my left flank. At 1. 15 p. m. Colonel Carroll, commanding the First Brigade, reported to me. His troops were massed under cover from the enemy's fire and held in reserve. Judging that the enemy had already assembled about 4,000 troops in my front, and that large bodies of men were still moving from the direction of Clark's Mountain, I requested that another brigade might be sent across the river, and at 2. 15 p. m. Colonel Powers, commanding the Second Brigade, reported to me. His troops were deployed in line of battle and placed under cover. At 3. 45 p. m., the enemy having extended his lines of battle and skirmishers to the right and left and increased the vigor of his fire, indicated an intention to attack, and at 4. 30 p. m. began to advance, his main attack being directed against the two houses before mentioned, combining therewith a movement of a heavy column toward our right, with the intention of cutting off our communication with Morton's Ford. The general commanding the division assumed command in person, and led on the troops to repel this attack, and by his direction I took command on the left and repelled the attack on that flank. By 6 p. m. the enemy was repulsed at all point without gaining any advantage. At 7. 50 p. m. I was directed to recross the river with such of my troops as were not on duty as pickets, and informed that my whole line of pickets would be forthwith relieved by General Webb and follow after me. I left Captain Seabury, my assistant adjutant-general, in charge, with directions to retire by the left flank when relieved. I regret to say the line was not relieved, and my pickets were the last to recross the river, which was accomplished, however, without loss at 1 a. m.

I need hardly say that I am satisfied with the conduct of the brigade. The passage of the river under the circumstances was calculated to put to a severe test the bravery and fortitude of the troops. To have been accomplished with so little loss is especially creditable to them, as indicating the good order and impetuosity what which it was done.

I beg to make honorable mention of the following officers: Captain R. S. Seabury, my assistant adjutant-general, in command of the skirmishers, for the gallant manner in which he crossed the river, being the first on the other side, and for the good judgment displayed in conducting the line of skirmishers to the front; Lieutenant Colonel William H. Baird, of the One hundred and twenty-sixth Regiment New York Volunteers, for gallantry maintaining his ground on the skirmish line during the whole afternoon; also the officers with the 300 men (for whose names I refer you to the reports of the regimental commanders) for the efficient manner in which they managed their commands; Colonel Crandell, of the One hundred and twenty-fifth Regiment; Colonel James M. Bull, of the One hundred and twenty-sixth; Lieutenant-Colonel Lusk, of the One hundred and eleventh, and Lieutenant-Colonel Hughes, of the Thirty-ninth, for the promptness with which they executed orders; Captain Joseph Hyde, assistant inspector-general on my staff, and Lieutenant P. C. Rogers, acting aide-de-camp, for the valuable assistance rendered by them.

I am, with great respect, your obedient servant,

JOSHUA T. OWEN,

Brigadier-General of Volunteers, Commanding.