POST ARANSAS, TEX., January 20, 1864.

Lieutenant Colonel W. B. SCATES,

Assistant Adjutant-General:

COLONEL: I had the honor in my last report to call attention to the fact that my men were much in want of proper clothing, and beg leave to say once more that they are absolutely suffering for want of the same. Our means of communicating with headquarters are limited, and consequently cannot send the regimental quartermaster away with any certainty when he could return. Requisitions have been made out and forwarded, but fail, as yet, to receive any return. The health of the regiment is excellent, and I have now on the island at this post an aggregate of 360; this is exclusive of Captain Altmann's company, which is doing provost duty at headquarters of Major-General Dana, and I am expecting daily the convalescents from New Orleans, as I have taken steps to have them forwarded to the regiment.

Permit me again to state that our tents are worn out, yet we have quite comfortable quarters for the men, which we built since coming here. I learn that the troops have generally been paid up to January 1, 1864. My regiment has not received any pay since August 31, 1863, and many are in great need of money, especially of officers, and, if possible, I would urge that the provost-marshal be directed to pay us before leaving for New Orleans. The fortifications have been nearly completed several times, and are sufficiently advanced at present so that the guns are in position and can be used, but the sand out of which they are constructed is so light and dry that the winds blow it away, and it is almost impossible to keep the works in repair. Captain Blanchard, of the engineers, has caused large quantities of sea grass to be gathered and placed upon the works, and sowed oats on them, with seems to prevent the destruction by the wind very much, and may, with care and attention, obviate the difficulty entirely. We experience considerable difficulty in procuring firewood, having but two wagons at the post.

My scouts have several times been in Corpus Christi, and find no enemy. Deserters still continue to come in slowly. I have no doubt that if we were on the mainland very many deserters would come into our lines, and there is not the least difficulty in taking possession of and holding Corpus Christi at any time it may be deemed proper.

Respectfully,

WM. G. THOMPSON,

Major, Commanding Twentieth Iowa and Post Aransas.