[Inclosure I.] HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF ARIZONA, Las Cruses, N. Mex., August 15, 1865.

Brigadier General E. R. S. CANBY,

Commanding Department of New Mexico, Santa Fe, N. Mex.:

GENERAL: I wrote to you a letter from Ojo de la Vaca on the 2nd instant advising you of the strength of the forces under my command then en route to the Rio Grandle. Since then I have not received any letters from your headquarters advising me of the receipt of that communication. The inclosed general orders (Nos. 14 and 15, from these headquarters) will give you an idea of the force stationed at Mesilla. In Las Cruses there are four companies of the Fifth U. S. Infantry; at Fort Fillmore there are Shinn's light battery, Third U. S. Artillery; Companies A and E, First California Volunteer Infantry; Company B, Fifth California Volunteer Infantry, and Companies B and D, First California Volunteer Cavalry, and Company B, Second California Volunteer Cavalry. I places all the cavalry and nearly all the quartermaster's wagons and teams at Fort Fillmore on account of the good grazing in that vicinity and the abundance of mesquite beans now in tat neighborhood, which for the present precludes the necessity of purchasing much forage. As there are sufficient quarters at La Mesilla for the four companies of the Fifth U. S. Infantry I shall establish them in that town, unless otherwise directed by yourself, at least for the present. The emulation which will naturally spring up between them and the volunteers, as to who shall best perform their duties, will, in my opinion, be of great service to both; besides, there is a fine building there, where the supplies - quartermaster's and subsistence - can be kept free of expense, and the town of Mesilla is said to be a cooler and healthier locality than Las Cruses. Colonel Howe wrote to me desiring that I would send these four companies to Fort Craig, but this I do not feel authorized to do unless your order it. Mr. Woods the beef contractor, wrote me a note in relationto furnishing beef for my command. It is herewith inclosed,* together with my reply. I hope my desicion in this case will meet with your approval. I have not yet learned officially whether Mr. Woods will or not supply beef for only the four companies of regulars; I have heard that he would not. To-morrow I leave for Fort Bliss, in Texas, with Companies B, of the First, and B, of the Second, California Volunteer Cavalry. Company C, First California Volunteer Cavalry, is already at Hart's Mill, as you had doubtless heard previous to my arrival. There are many matters of moment which required my attention, as I have heard, in the neighorhood of Fort Bliss.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAMES H. CARLETON,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.