HEADQUARTERS OWEN'S RIVER EXPEDITION,
September 16, 1862.

COLONEL: I arrived at this place, twenty-five miles below Camp Independence, on yesterday, where I met the command moving down the valley, bag and baggage, almost in a state of mutiny. The command are entirely out of provisions and clothing, and the weather is becoming very cold; the nights almost freezing, hence the dissatisfaction. On Saturday they had a severe wind-storm with quite a heavy fall of snow on the mountain tops. This is the second time the command have been without provisions; once before for the period of five days, and this time, had I not taken the precaution to bring a team through with me, making the trip in eleven days with 1,500 pounds of flour, they would have been without provisions for at least two weeks. The men are barefooted and naked, although requisitions have been made time and again for clothing. when I send for clothing for three companies I almost invariably, if I receive any at all, receive clothing for one company. The last requisition was for 300 pairs of pants, 300 boots, &c., in proportion, which Colonel Babbitt informed me were ordered, but upon examination of the invoice that I brought up to Captain Goodman, I find that no pants have been sent, and only 100 pairs of boots, and other clothing in proportion. Of course 100 pairs of boots are not sufficient for the company to be left at this post for the winter. I therefore inclose estimate for more clothing for the company to be retained here, and most respectfully ask that it may be ordered forwarded through Lieutenant Morgan to Captain T. H. Goodman, at Camp Independence. The regulations, I believe, only allow one pair of boots to the man for six months, but I assure you that the article of boots that we get will not last three months, and, as the winters are in this vicinity very severe, and there is no possibility of the men purchasing anything (if it were here to purchase), they not having been paid off for nearly nine months, I hope the general will see the necessity of a greater number being furnished the company to remain in the valley. I have also to most respectfully ask that 200 pairs of boots and a full change of clothing for the two companies to return to Camp Latham with me may be invoiced to the quartermaster of the Fourth Infantry at Camp Latham (for the Second Cavalry), so that they may something to put on to cover their nakedness with when they ttlements. It is everything else but a pleasant service to do duty in this valley, and the men, volunteer-like, think that they are badly treated at best in being left in this valley, and unless they are regularly fed and well clothed it will be impossible to keep them together. I am fearful that there will be trouble with Company G when they are left alone, anyway. To-morrow I move the command back to Camp Independence and renew the work of preparing winter quarters for the company to remain. It is going to be uphill business, turning back and getting the men to work. I shall, however, do the best I can between now and the 1st of October, by which time I will have to move the two companies for Camp Latham in order to get out of the valley before the snow falls. One more request and I am done. In consideration of the fact that there is no sutler here, and that the men have not been paid for nine months; that the winters here are so very severe, and there are no gloves to be purchased, I have most respectfully to ask, although out of the regular line, that 100 or 200 pairs of Indian tan gloves (of buckskin) may be ordered purchased and forwarded to Captain Goodman for his company. The money value can be sent with them, so that they can be chanrged to the men and thus protect the Government.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEO. S. EVANS,

Lieutenant-Colonel Second Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, San Francisco, Cal.