Numbers 2. Report of Major General Gouverneur K. Warren, U. S. Army, commanding Second Army Corps.

HEADQUARTERS SECOND ARMY CORPS,
March 23, 1864.

GENERAL: I respectfully submit the following report of the demonstration against the enemy made by this corps on the 6th of February:

Proper orders were issued the night before, as soon as received from you, to move the whole corps at daylight. Being very unwell in the morning, which was stormy, and the operations ordered being only by way of demonstration, I allowed the movement to proceed under direction of General Caldwell. I quote from his report:

Or riding forward to reconnoiter, I found that the enemy had a picket-line along the river and a force of 30 or more men in rifle-pits directly at the ford. I directed Brigadier-General Hayus, commanding Third Division, to send a brigade across the river at the ford and to advance a half a mile beyond. This was done in the most gallant manner, and nearly the whole force at the ford was captured without the loss of a man. This brigade then advanced, with little opposition, to a ridge about three-fourths of a mile from the enemy's intrenchments. The enemy making a considerable show of force in front of General Owen's brigade, at the request of General Hays the two remaining brigades of his division were sent across the river. Understanding as I did that orders from army headquarters were not to precipitate an engagement, but to draw a large force of the enemy to our front, I determined not to advance farther, but to hold our position.

General Caldwell then disposed our artillery to operate the right and left flanks of General Hays' division, brought General Webb's division as close to the river bank as shelter from the enemy's observation would permit, and stationed the First Division a little way back, at the edge of the forest. On learning the above result, I repaired at once to the front, with instructions from the general commanding to withdraw our troops across the river if I deemed them in danger of being overwhelmed, or to push our advance farther if it offered prospects of success. I reached the ford about 3 p. m. and carefully reconnoitered the position of the enemy, under fire from his sharpshooters.

Morton's Ford is at the middle of a considerable bend in the river, whose convexity is turned toward us. The point of land opposite is about 1 mile along the stream, and rising gradually from the river it is seen and commanded for about half mile by the ground on this side. About 1 mile from the river a high ridge is found which, encircling the point at the ford, joins the banks of the river above and below, while at these points the enemy have complete command of the ground on this side of the river. This ridge is also generally wooded and strongly intrenched.

In these woods and behind these lines were two camps. He had complete control with his fire over the point of land our troops had gained on his side of the stream. Our troops then were in a kind of cul-de-sac - a focus of fire. I soon determined, from the appearances above described and the force of the enemy (see General Owen's report), not to advance farther, and to wait till night before withdrawing my command, as the movement of the troops drew the fire of the enemy's artillery upon them whenever attempted. About this time General Newton's command approached the vicinity of Raccoon Ford, in sight upon our right, and commenced with his artillery a demonstration against the enemy posted there. Just at dark the enemy commenced an attack upon our skirmish line, and one of his regiments assailed a house where the right of this line was posted, and took it. Our men, upon being re-enforced, retook the place, and the line was re-established. The enemy continued a very brisk musketry fire at long range from all his line around us, and as the curve of the path of the ball at the distance was greater than the slight undulations of the ground, this latter afforded little or no protection to our men. Holding their position bravely against the concentrating, plunging, and crossing fire, and replying as best they could to the enemy, mainly well sheltered, our men of General Hays' division lost about 210 in killed and wounded. While this was going on, General Webb's division was ordered by me to cross to General Hays' support. The firing ceased after about one hour's duration. General Webb relieved General Hays' troops, and they withdrew with their wounded and dead to our side. General Webb withdrew his division about midnight. We remained on the river bank in position all day on the 7th, and returned to our camp in the evening. General Hays, in his report, says:

If supported by our whole corps I have not the least doubt that we would have been enabled to capture the whole force of the rebels, including camp and artillery, with less loss than we have suffered.

Lest the sanguine opinion from so able and reliable on officer may occasion chagrin that we did not attempt more, I will state that the demonstration was made without any pontoon bridges being with us, and the river was cold and deep, and the ingress and egress from the water difficult, and that, although a foot bridge was immediately begun and pushed with energy, it was not passable till dark. It would have occupied most of the day to cross our troops by wading, during which time the enemy would have been concentrating. It would have been easy for him to retire with his artillery if he had not felt confident of resisting our attack. Even if we gained possession of the intrenchments and destroyed the camps, we would have gained but little and been unable to maintain ourselves without much of our army being with us which was not prepared to come. Moreover, a repulse upon that open plain, with our whole corps engaged and the river behind us, might have occurred and proved most disastrous. The effect of the enemy's random firing after dark upon our single division shows how much greater would have been our loss had the whole corps been exposed to it. Had we escaped this night attack our successful demonstration would have been a most gratifying affair. The losses we sustained, however saddening, are greatly alleviated by many most cheering examples of gallantry and good conduct. The thrilling spectacle of a small column marching by the flank across a deep stream in the face of the enemy in open day has seldom been witnessed. It sun paralleled audacity destroyed the accuracy of the enemy's fire, and paralyzed his flight. Captain R. S. Seabury, assistant adjutant-general to General Owen, was the leader of this gallant party, mounted on his horse, and deserves to be mentioned in general orders. Lieutenant Colonel William H. Baird, of the One hundred and twenty-sixth New York Volunteers, also attracted notice by his bravery. The Seventh [West] Virginia Volunteers, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel J. H. Lockwood, though all ready to go on the veteran furlough which had been granted them, chose rather to go to meet the enemy, and they returned with their commander and 10 of his men wounded. Colonel Carroll, to whose brigade the Seventh Virginia belongs, behaved with his usual gallantry in commanding his brigade, as did also Brigadier-General Owen, whose brigade was the first across the Rapidan. Colonel Charles J. Powers commanded the Second Brigade of General Hays' division in this trying situation, and his loss was heavier than any other portion of the command. General Hays' disregard of danger was again conspicuous. His aide, Lieutenant Shields, received a frightful bullet wound entirely through his breast. His assistant adjutant-general, Lieutenant J. S. Sullivan, had his horse shot under him, and Captain Lynch, of his staff, had his hat torn from his head by a piece of shell. Brigadier-General Webb conducted all the movements of his division with vigor and promptness. Brigadier-General Caldwell conducted the operations of the corps during my absence in a successful manner, in accordance with the instructions from headquarters Army of the Potomac. The Artillery Brigade, under Lieutenant-Colonel Monroe, performed its duties most satisfactorily, moving with promptness and dispatch, though the roads were heavy with mud. Dr. Dougherty and the officers of his department took all the care of the wounded that could ever be done on a battle-field. The pontoon train, under Captain Barlow, U. S. Engineers, arrived in the night closing the 6th of February, but no occasion after called for its use. General Humphreys, chief of staff, Army of the Potomac, was present during the enemy's attack at night-fall. Lieutenant Colonel F. A. Walker, assistant adjutant-general; Captain Miller, aide-de-camp, and Lieutenant Roebling, aide-de-camp, acquitted themselves handsomely. I accompany this report with a map sketch* of the vicinity of Morton's Ford, made by Lieutenant Roebling; also a nominal list* of casualties; also copies of the reports of Brigadier-General Caldwell, commanding First Division; Brigadier-General hays, commanding Third Division; Brigadier-General Webb, commanding Second Division; Brigadier-General Owen, commanding Third Brigade, Third Division; Colonel Carroll, commanding First Brigade, Third Division; Colonel Powers, commanding Second Brigade, Third Division; Lieutenant-Colonel Monroe, commanding Artillery Brigade.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

G. K. WARREN,

Major-General of Volunteers, Commanding.