HDQRS. DEPT. OF S. CAROLINA, GEORGIA, AND FLORIDA, Charleston, S. C., July 13, 1864.

Major General J. G. FOSTER,
Commanding U. S. Forces, Hilton Head, S. C.:

GENERAL: Your letter of the 4th, in reply to mine of the 1st, has been received. I am pleased to know that you reciprocate my desire for an exchange of prisoners, but regret that you should require as a condition precedent to any negotiation for this end that I should remove from their present location the U. s. prisoners of war now in this city. Such a course on my part would be an implied admission that those officers are unduly exposed and treated with unnecessary rigor, which they have themselves assured you in their letter of the 1st instant is not the case. I regard the exchange of prisoners as demanded alike by the rules of civilized warfare and the dictates of common humanity, and to require a change of location which you have every reason to know the prisoners d not themselves desire is to throw an unnecessary obstacle in the way of accomplishing this end, and thus to retain prisoners of war in irksome confinement. The change I most prefer would be send them to your headquarters, and thus to retain prisoners of war in irksome confinement. The change I most prefer would be to send them to your headquarters, and this may yet be done, unless defeated by obstacles interposed by yourself or your Government.

I was notified of your request to send a staff officer to meet one of yours at Port Royal at 2 p. m. to-day, too late to comply therewith. I have, however, directed the officer of your staff to be informed that I would send an officer to meet him at 4 p. m. to-morrow, and have accordingly directed Major J. F. Lay, assistant adjutant and inspector general, to take charge of this letter and deliver it at Port Royal Ferry. I repeat that he is fully advised of my views, and should you desire it will confer with you or any officer of my views, and should you desire it will confer with you or any officer of your staff whom you may designate.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SAM. JONES,

Major-General, Commanding.