HDQRS. FIRST Brigadier, ARMY OF THE FRONTIER,
Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, February 24, 1864.

SIR: I have arrived from the south with my main command and a refugee ox train. I do not hesitate to say that the expedition has been more eminently successful than any ever under taken in the Indian country. So faras the rebel Creek, Seminole, and Chickasaw Nation is in council. The severity of the blow has tricked terror to the enemy. My command reached a point near Red River Valley, 165 miles south-southwest of this place. We marched about 400 miles; killed, as nearly as I can get information, in the different fights and skirmishers, 250 men, and have only 4 wounded, all of whom will recover. Three are missing but may turn up. Among the rebel loss there are 2 majors killed (Could and Factor), 2 captains, and 3 lieutenants. I have brought 20 prisoners with me, and sent them to Fort Smith to be exchanged. I had plenty of corn for my cavalry horses and stock. I put up a crib of corn for the Fourteenth [Kansas] above by abundant corn on my trail. I lost three days waiting on them. If they started to join me I cannot conceive where they went, as there is a plan highway to North Fork. The health of my command was excellent on the trip. I started with about six days' rations, and men were out nearly a month. We captured a number of hand-mills, and as there are no mills in that country, my men subsisted by grinding corn into meal in the camp at night. So hearty were the men that on the last two days the infantry marched, respectively, 24 and 30 miles.

After striking and destroying the rebels, I sent the proclamation, and a letter each, to Governor Colbert, of the Chickasaws, Una McIntosh, Colonel Jumper, of the Seminoles, and the Choctaw council pointing to what had been done, and notifying them that their day of grace would soon by over. I in close copies.

If the Fourteenth had joined, I would have entered Northern Texas, and think I could have brought out recruits for a white and colored regiment. General Maxey has two batteries and is much my superior in artillery, of which I have little. He has three Texas regiments, besides what is left of the two rebel Cherokee and three rebel Choctaw regiments. The Seminoles, Creeks, and Chickasaws declare that they will not fight the Government any more. I have captured and brought out what will make a good ox train, which I am organizing to start to Fort Scott.

In the late expedition I would have entered Fort Washita, which I could have done without striking a blow, in a few hours' march. The enemy evacuated it on my expected approach, as it is 18 miles from Red River, and there is only one ford, which I could have seized and captured the whole, unless they had been able to whip me. My reasons for not going farther were that I intended the blow partly for the moral effect on the Indian nations, and wished to back, and thereby revive their hopes. The Fourteenth Kansas, which was to be the backbone of the skirmishing, were getting very scarce of ammunition, a very small supply of which I had been able to take. I had desired to enter Texas and bring out a regiment of mountain Federals, and also of negroes, but as the enemy could have concentrated a force on me, and as I had not the cavalry for rapid movement, I had to forego it for the time.

Very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

WM. A. PHILLIPS,

Colonel, Commanding.

Major General S. R. CURTIS,

Commanding Department of Kansas.