ENGINEER'S OFFICE,

Pass Cavallo, April 9, 1864.

Captain JOSEPH C. STONE,

Assistant Adjutant-General:

SIR: I have the honor to respectfully submit the following report relative to progress on defenses for the 8th and 9th instant: Ninety men from the First Brigade, First Division, of whom Captain Voorhees, Twenty-first Iowa Infantry, was in charge, were employed on second lunette on enterior line on the 8th instant. Four teams reported at this work to-day. At redoubt on left of same line 62 men reported; these were from the Second Brigade, First Division. This party were relieved immediately, as no teams reported. Very good resentments are being made at both of these works, but the progress is very slow, as we are able to employ only a very small number of men on this long line. The wind is destroying rapidly that portion of the line and the works where resentments are not yet made. Eighty-two men from the First Brigade, First Division, were employed the 9th instant on second lunette half day. Two teams reported at this work and none at the left of the line. No men were employed at redoubts on this line. I employ very nearly 100 men daily at Fort Esperanza. Worked only half day on this fort the 9th instant, Saturday. Two hundred and Thirty-five men were employed at interior line on the 8th, and 236 half day on the 9th instant.

The progress on interior line is very satisfactory, as the work is being done systematically and well. The earth is well rammed in layers of about 1 foot each. Lunettes A and B of this line are nearly complete. In lunette A the resentments are complete, and two platforms (earthen) have been made. One remains to be finished. Lunette B is nearly all sodded. The ground of the cremaillere line has been broken nearly the whole length of this line. I have made the profile of this line strong. The width of parapet, horizontal distance, 11 feet; command, 8 feet. The earth -work of the platforms of the left battery at McHenry Bayou is complete, and I am waiting for material with which to construct platforms. Six teams report daily at Fort Esperanza and a 2-mule team at interior line to draw sods.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN C. COBB,

Colonel in Charge.