Vicksburg, Miss., May 31, 1864.*

Major General A. J. SMITH,
Commanding Detach., 16th Army Corps, Vicksburg, Miss.:

GENERAL: Attempts have been made by the rebels for several days part to interrupt the navigation of the Mississippi River at points on the Arkansas shore above and below Greenville, Miss. The force and character of the troops engaged is not definitely known, but I am informed by Major-General Steele that a force of several thousand mounted men, supported by infantry, on the Saline, were below Pine Bluff with the presumed intention, of interrupting his communications by the Arkansas and White Rivers. It is believed that a considerable part of this force has been turned eastward to the Mississippi, and is now engaged in the attempt to interrupt the navigation of that river.

Your own command, re-enforced by a battery of artillery and a regiment of cavalry from the forces under the command of Major-General Slocum, and whatever force of the Marine Brigade may be within reach, will be employed for the purpose of destroying or capturing the rebel force, or, at least, giving them such a lesson as will deter them from a renewal of similar attempts. The most reliable information with regard to the character of the country in which you are to operate, and the routes by which the rebels reach and retreat from the river, can be obtained from the officers of the Marine Brigade; and Colonel Currie, now on the Diana, is recommended to you as specially qualified for this purpose.

Your operations will not be trammeled by any special instructions, as I know that, with the object indicated, the means under your control will be applied to the best advantage. Upon completing this duty, or finding that the rebels have gone beyond your reach, you will proceed with your command, to Memphis, touching at the mouth of White River for the purpose of conferring with Captain Prichett, the senior naval officer on that station, with regard to the state of affairs in Arkansas. The latest information from that quarter is satisfactory, but if anything should in the mean time have intervened to interrupt his communications or prevent the passage of re-enforcements or supplies now on their way to him, you will act as in your judgment may be best in order to return affairs to their normal and proper condition. The troops ordered to report to you from General Slocum's command will be relieved by you as soon as your operations about Greenville are concluded, and will either return to this place or remain there in observation, as General Slocum may direct. On you arrival at Memphis the two divisions of your command will be made up, if possible, to 10,000 men and two batteries to each division, by recalling all absent detachments and adding to them such additional force as may be necessary from the troops that have been ordered from Missouri. Instructions to this effect have been given Major-General Washburn, commanding the District of West Tennessee.

Major Stanton, with his corps of paymasters, will be instructed to accompany you to complete the payment of your command on the route or at Memphis. Your sick and wounded that will not be injured by removal will be taken with you, but the arrangements for their transportation should be such as not to interfere with military operations.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

ED. R. S. CANBY,

Major-General, Commanding.