ASST. INSP. General 'S OFFICE, HDQRS. CAV. CORPS, March 22, 1864.

Numbers 3. Report of Captain Joseph Gloskoski, Twenty-ninth New York Infantry, Acting Signal Officer.

HDQRS. THIRD DIVISION, CAVALRY CORPS, March 16, 1864.

CAPTAIN: In obedience to orders I have the honor to make the following report of services performed by me in the late expedition of General Kilpatrick's cavalry:

In order to give you a correct idea of what was executed by me and Lieutenant Bartley, it will be necessary to make a brief sketch of that expedition or raid.

We (General Kilpatrick's command) left Stevensburg on the 28th ultimo at 7 p. m. Colonel Dahlgren with some 600 picked men went an hour in advance of the main column. Lieutenant Bartley accompanied Colonel Dahlgren; I remained with General Kilpatrick. The first night of our march was beautiful. Myriads of stars twinkled in heaven, looking at us as if in wonder why should we break the laws of God and wander at night instead of seeking repose and sleep. The moon threw its silvery light upon Rapidan waters when we forded it, and it seemed as if the Almighty Judge was looking silently upon our doings. We moved as fast as our horses could walk, making halts of fifteen minutes twice every twenty-four hours. Thus we reached Spotsylvania Court-House. There Colonel Dahlgren with his command took direct road toward Frederick's Hall, while we moved to Beaver Dam Station. From this point I was expected and put signaling in motion. This was not easy, for moving fast as we did there was no time to look for a signal flag. To remain behind for that purpose would not be prudent or safe, and even if it were safe it would not be of much avail, for the country through which we moved is flat, low, and wooded. By the time we reached Beaver Dam Station it grew dark and rain began to fall. The light, however, that was there might have been seen for many miles. Twenty wooden buildings were at once set on fire, forming one sheet of flame, rising high above the surrounding woods, and the black forms of our soldiers jumping around it seemed from a distance like demons on some hellish sport. Now it stormed in earnest. Sharp wind and sleet forced men to close their eyes. The night was so dark that even forced men to close their eyes. The night was so dark that even the river in front could not be seen and tress on the roadside could not be distinguished. So complete darkness I never saw. Men depended entirely on the guide them. Stopping for a short time I sent up by order of General Kilpatrick several rockets, but of course received no reply. No rockets could be seen for any distance on such a night as that.

Next day, the 1st of March, we were in front of Richmond. No sooner were we in view of the fortifications that the enemy's guns opened fire. Here I had time to look for Colonel Dahlgren's signals. None could be seen, however, owning partly to woods, mist, and smoke, and want of knowledge of his whereabouts. He was to join us at this point or in Richmond if we or he had succeeded in taking it by surprise. In my opinion the sound he might have judged correctly who far we were from his command. That sound told plainly that Richmond was not to be taken by surprise, and that the weaker detachment ought not to lose time in joining with the main command. When near sunset we moved off toward Chickahominy and encamped for the night. There I barely escape capture, for riding out on reconnaissance to learn where we were and the roads, I found rebel pickets on each road, and some were trying to cut me off on my return to camp. We were not destined to sleep in that camp, for no sooner were we laid down than the rebels opened fire our regiments. Dark and rainy as it was not much confusion ensued. Ours repulsed the rebel attack and we moved out of that place toward Pamunkey River. Next day the largest portion (400 men) of Colonel Dahlgren's force joined us. I could learn as yet nothing of Lieutenant Bartley. From this point we had no trouble in reaching Yorktown on the 4th. Next day we embarked for Portsmouth, landed there on the 6th, moved toward Suffolk, saw no rebel forces, and returned to Portsmouth the same day, and the next to Yorktown. There we learned of Colonel Dahlgren's death and the capture of his party.

General Kilpatrick with a portion of his command made an expedition to King and Queen County. As this expedition was to be only a mere retaliation for the death and bad treatment of Colonel Dahlgren, I accompanied it only as far as West Point. That is as far as our gun-boats went, and I returned in a gun-boat to Yorktown.

On the 12th we embarked for Alexandria; that is, the command began to embark as fast as there was transportation for it. By this time the whole command is perhaps in Alexandria. General Kilpatrick went ahead and left orders for his staff to follow him.

Yesterday one brigade of cavalry and General Kilpatrick's personal escort had orders to move on. In anticipation that they would move, I ordered my flagmen and wagon to move with the escort and came myself by rail to Brandy Station and thence to these headquarters; but there I learned that the orders were countermanded by telegraph, and that the cavalry would leave Alexandria to-morrow (Thursday, the 17th).

From this statement you will see that there was not much opportunity to use signals, owing partly to our very rapid movements, partly to the inclemency of the weather, and often to the position of the country. I found signal officers at Yorktown, Gloucester, and Portsmouth. I regret to state that Lieutenant Bartley, with his 2 men, full signal equipments, and supply of rockets, were captured.

It is known its leaving Stevensburg was kept so secret, seemingly, that only the chief commanders were acquainted with it, although for two weeks previous there were loud rumors in camp among soldiers and civilians that we were going to make a raid on Richmond.

I inclose the code for rocket signals I arranged at the time of our starting. I knew nothing of what was needed at the time I had the interview with you.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. GLOSKOSKI,

Captain and Acting Signal Officer.