TUCSON, ARIZ. TER., October 4, 1862.

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, U. S. Army,

Hdqrs. Department of the Pacific, San Francisco, Cal.:

COLONEL: As considerable difference of opinion has existed, and does exist, in regard to the number of rebel troops that occupied this Territory since the commencement of the insurrection, I have taken considerable pains to set the matter at rest, and have the honor to transmit herewith affidavits made by reliable residents of this place on this subject. A few days ago a person named Ferguson passed through here en route to Camp Wright, from Mesilla. He stated to Major Coult, Fifth Infantry California Volunteers, that he resided in Mesilla from March, 1861, until last month, and the number of the Confederate troops in Mesilla never exceeded 270; that they belonged to Baylor's regiment, and that this was the force to whom Major Lynde surrendered 700 men in New Mexico. The command of Hunter at Tucson, and Baylor at Mesilla, comprised all the enemy's force in this Territory, viz, 375 men. A few of the miners at Pino Alto, for the purpose of self-protection against the Apaches, organized themselves into a company, and in order to obtain arms, ammunition, &c., from Colonel Baylor, they took the oath of allegiance to the Confederate Government, but in nowise formed part of its forces or took any part in its service. Mr. Ferguson, above referred to, is a brother of Mrs. Cable, at Oak Grove, San Diego County, and is now on his way there, where his affidavit can be taken if necessary. The statements of Stevens, Aldrich, and Gay are abundantly corroborated by the evidence of almost every person residing in Tucson during its occupation by the rebels.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

D. FERGUSSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers.

P. S. --I have opened this to inclose copy of a scrap of a letter found amongst the records of Tucson (Post) from Colonel Baylor, which substantiates the statements in regard to the force of rebels in this Territory.