HDQRS. FIRST CALIFORNIA VOLUNTEER CAVALRY,
Fort Thorn, Ariz., July 8, 1862.

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to report the reoccupation of Fort Thorn by the squadron of First California Volunteer Cavalry, under my command, on the evening of the 5th instant. Immediately thereafetr the national colors were run up and the old flag once more floated over the garrison. On the morning of the 6th instant an express arrived from Fort Craig, with a communication from Colonel Chivington, First Colorado Volunteers, commanding Southern military District of New Mexico, a copy of which is herewith inclosed. * He also sent a communication addressed to Colonel Steele, C. S. Army, empowering me to negotiate an exchange for Captain McCleave and the men who were made prisoners with him. Soon after the express from Colonel Chivington arrived a party of men were seen approaching from the direction of Mesilla. One of them proved to tbe Captain McCleave, on his way to Fort Craig, bringing with him a proposition from Colonel Steele for an exchange for Captain Gardner, C. S. Army. Having learned from the expressman just arrived that Captain Gardner died a few days since, I at once sent Captain Fritz, First California Volunteer Cavalry, to Fort Fillmore, with a request to Colonel Steele to name any other captain General Canby had made prisoner in exchange for Captain McCleave; also proposing an exchange for the men taken with him, as well as an exchange for our expressman (Jones) and a Mr. John Lemon, of Mesilla, who was extremely kind to Captain McLemon, of Mesilla, who was extremely kind to Captain McCleave during his confinement, and who had horses ready saddled and hid out for Jones' escape. He was ordered to be hung, and was taken to a tree for that purpose, but after hanging a Mr. Marshall, who was taken out with him, his execution was postponed. Captain Fritz will probably be back to-night, when I will at once send Captain McCleave with a party of twenty-five men through to Tucson. It is not safe for a less number to travel that road on account of the Indians, and even then with the utmost caution.

If it is the desire of the colonel commanding to keep open communication between Tucson and the Rio Grande Iwould respectfully recommend that a company of infantry be stationed at Dragoon Spring and two companies at the Apache Pass. That corps would be far more effective against than cavalry; besides, horses could not be kept in flesh on the dry grass alone; they would be utterly useless in two weeks' riding. At this season of the year sufficient water and of a good quality can be obtained for two companies of infantry at the foot of the mountain, four miles north of Ewell's Station. The spring is prominently marked by a large, white spot on the mountain, which is directly over the water. The Rio Grande has been unsually high this summer, almost the entire bottom between Fort Craig and Mesilla being still overflowed. It is impossible at this time to approach Mesilla being still overflowed. It is impossible at this time to approach Mesilla on the west side of the river, a new channel having been washed out on that side of the town, through which the largest portion of the water flows; besides, the bottom for a long distance is overflowed, and, the soil being of a loose nature, animals mire down in attempting to get through it. This morning I sent Captain McCleave with a small party to examine the Sane Diego Crossing, engiteen miles below here, to ascertain if the river can be forded at that point. The moment a crossing can be effected Forts Fillmore and Bliss. When that is done that portion of the proclamation of the colonel commanding will not only have been carried out, but the sacred soil of Texas will have been invaved. Captain McCleave reports Colonel Steele with the rear of Sibley's brigade making hurried exertions to get away from Texas. He is pressing every team, both mule and oxen, he can find into service, compelling the owners (generally Mexicans) to take Confederate scrip in payment therefor. The orted to by him in regard to provisions. Captain Howland, Third U. S. Cavalry, in advance of his squadron, has just arrived; his command (100 men) will probably be here this evening. his horses are in shocking condition. Should we come up with Colonel Steele and a mounted charge be made, it must be done by the squadron of my regiment. One the capture of Jones greatly increased exertions were made by Colonel Steele to get away. Mesilla was evacuated, and captain McCleabe, who was at the time on parole to the limits of the town, immediately confined under a strong guard. Mr. White, of the Pima Villages, has been released, and will probably be here with return of Captain Fritz.

The horses are out grazing (under a strong guard) from daybreak until dark, the tied up to the picket-line, with as much grass as they can at during the night. They are doing very well, but have not yet recovered from the effects of the very distressing march from Tucson here. Captain McCleave has just returned, and reports the road down the river almost impassable for loaded wagons and the river swimming at the crossing. July 9 [7?], sent Captain McCleave, with an escort and two wagons, to ort Craig for supplies. The squadron of Third U. S. Cavalry (100 strong) arrived and gone into quarters at this post. Captain Fritz returned this evening, having effected an exchange for Captain McCleave and the others named in my communication to Colonel Steele, a copy* of which is herewit inclosed. Two lieutenants were given in exchange for Captain McCleave, as Colonel Steele affected to know of no captain of theirs for that purpose, although there are a number. His real object was to exchange for officers of his own regiment only. About 6 o'clock this evening an express arrived from Captain McCleave, informing me of an attack on his party, as they were moving up the river, by the Navajoes, sixty or seventy strong; that he has made camp, but was being surrounded by them. I immediately sent Captain Howland, with Lieutenant Baldwin and forty men, to his relief. I forward herewith, for the information of the colonel commanding, all communications* received or written by me since my arrival on the Rio Grande.

I am, lieutenant, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

E. E. EYRE,

Lieutenant-Colonel First California Volunteer Cavalry, Commanding

Lieutenant BENJAMIN C. CUTLER,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Column from California, Tucson, Ariz.