Fort Walla Walla, August 23, 1862-2. 30 p. m.

SIR: An expres has within a few moments arrived from Colonel Maury's command, and I dispatch a special express to Wallula hoping it will arrive there in time for the steam-boat thence for The Dalles. Inclosed is the only communication+ to district headquarters contained in a very large mail brought in by the expressman. They are almost entirely private letters, and none for the commanding officer of this post. The expressman is intelligent and well informed and I gather from him the following which I trust will be found interesting to the commanding general: He left Colonel Maury's command encamped on the Owyhee River about 300 miles from this post all in good condition and about to leave for Salmon Falls in pursuance of district orders and instructions. Very few Indians had been seen during the march and no communication had with them. Evidence was seen of their recent presence along the line of march, and there was no doubt that the Indians throughout the entire country were apprised of the presence of our troops. A very large number of emigrants are on their way to this valley, and many stop in the neighborhood of and divert to the Salmon River and Powder River gold mines. They appear to be in good condition and well appointed, with the single exception of a scarcity of provisions. Reports were current on the Owyhee as the expressman left of the murder of eight or nine emigrants supposed to be by Indians, and one instance is related of the killing of a white man and his being robbed of between $7,000 and $8,000 in Treasury notes and twenty-dollar gold pieces. A few Indians had been seen attempting to exchange the money. the emigrants express much releif in the presence of troops on the road, and the belief is current that trouble has been averted by the movements of Colonel Maury's expedition. I will retain the expressman until a reply has been received from district headquarters.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JUSTUS STEINBERGER,

Colonel First Washington Territory Infantry, Commanding.

ASSISTANT ADJUTANT-GENERAL

Headquarters District of Oregon, Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.