HDQRS. DIST. OF MINN., DEPT. OF THE NORTHWEST,
Saint Paul, Minn., May 30, 1864.

Major General JOHN POPE, Milwaukee:

GENERAL: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch of 26th instant covering one of a like tenor to Brigadier-General Sully. Your orders will of course be obeyed to the extent of my ability, although I will not attempt to conceal my apprehensions that the departure of the Sixth Minnesota Volunteers will leave a very inadequate force for the security of our extensive frontier in the present critical state of our relations with the Indians. As it will be necessary for me to reduce the garrison at Fort Snelling to the lowest practicable limit, I respectfully ask for instruction to dispatch the Indian prisoners there, embracing some 80 men, women, and children, to Davenport, to remain there with the other captives until they are otherwise disposed of. I do not embrace Little Six and his co-chief Medicine Bottle in this application, as I propose to try them here for their manifold crimes by a military commission.

It will be impossible for me to furnish troops to enforce the draft now going on in this State, and I fear there will be serious difficulty in some of the counties. The preparations for the post at James River will be urged forward so as to enable the detachment to leave by 15th or 20th proximo. From all the information I can obtain there is no point on the James River where there is sufficient timber for the uses of a military post, and should that prove the case after a thorough exploration I shall cause the post to be established at the Head of the Coteau, as you directed.

The country continues parched to an excessive degree, and in consequence I anticipate much difficulty in obtaining forage on the part of the expeditionary force. But they must get along as well as they can. I shall leave on the 2nd proximo for Fort Ridgely to superintend the departure of the column ordered to march on the 5th. I have telegraphed General Sully that it would move from that post at that time. You can depend upon it that there will be no lack of vigor or activity in carrying out your programme in this district with the limited means at my disposal. It would be well if an engineer officer could be obtained to select the side and direct the construction of the James River post, and I respectfully suggest that application be made for one without delay. Failing in this the officer in command will be furnished with a plan of the post from these headquarters.

I am, general, with high respect, your obedient servant,

H. H. SIBLEY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.