Numbers 3. Report of Major Moses B. C. Wright, Second Indian Home Guard.

HDQRS. DETACH. 1ST Brigadier, ARMY OF FOURTIER,
Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, February 27, 1864.

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to report that, in obedience to instructions from your headquarters, dated January 27, 1864, I proceeded to Cane Hill and Rhea's Mills, Ark., arriving there on the 29th, for the purpose of supplying the command with flour and foraging the stock. I found soon after arriving there that Captain Buchanan with part of his company of guerrillas had crossed the Arkansas from below and was then in the mountains near Cane Hill, but was unable to get any definite information of his whereabouts, until on the night of the 8th of February he dashed into the command at Rhea's Mills and wounded 2 men. The next morning a party was started in pursuit,who, after following them through he mountains all day come upon them, when a skirmish ensued, which resulted in killing 3 of the rebels and slightly wounding their captain. After this affair they remained very quiet, concealed in the mountains, until on the night of the 20th instant they came in near Cane Hill, and stole a Government horse out of the corral. Upon making this discovery, I started Sergt. Henry Scraper, in command of a party, in pursuit, who after following them over the mountains about 15 miles, overtook them on the side of a steep bluff, where they had halted to rest their stock. Scraper halted and formed his men, when he charged them, completely routing them, killing Captain Buchanan and 3 of his men, besides capturing their horses, arms, saddles, bridles, blankets, clothing, &c. I captured altogether 8 horses, 3 Enfield rifles, 2 Mississippi rifles, 1 Sharps carbine, and Colt navy revolvers, together with the saddles, bridles, &c., above mentioned.

On Thursday, the 25th instant, I received orders to turn over my command to Major Charles Willettts, Fourteenth Kansas Cavalry, and report in person to your headquarters, where I arrived yesterday after an absence of thirty days.

I have the honor to remain, lieutenant, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

M. B. C. WRIGHT,

Major Second Indian Regiment, Commanding Detachment.

Lieutenant WILLIAM GALLAHER,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, First Brigade.