HDQRS. DEPT. OF S. CAROLINA, GEORGIA, AND FLORIDA, Charleston, S. C., August 22, 1864.

GENERAL: In connection with my report of this date of military operations near this place, I desire to bring prominently to the notice of the War Department the great need of additional troops in this military department. The operations of the enemy against this place, during the first ten days of July last, have demonstrated, I think, to all who know the principal facts what I have know and felt with great anxiety since I have been in command here-the inadequacy of the force at my command for the defense of the department, and especially of this city. If the same or a similar plan of attack on this place is again attempted (and I believe it will be) and is carried out with spirit and determination, it may result in most serious disaster for us. Having command of the sea and ample steam transportation, the enemy can very easily transport a large force from Virginia to this coast, and I think it highly probable that they will do so and attempt to indemnify themselves for their failure thus far in Virginia by capturing this place or Savannah, or, without reducing their force in Virginia, they may attempt to accomplish the same object by drawing the troops from the Gulf. The enemy has recently made demonstrations in East Florida, captured and burned Baldwin, and committed other depredations; and though the injury inflicted upon us there is much less than it was apprehended it would be, it has resulted more from the last of spirit and determination on the part of the enemy than our ability to drive them away. You are aware of the great importance portions of Florida are to us in many points of view, especially for its productions of cattle, hogs, sugar, and molasses. The most productive portions of the State, and the capital itself, are greatly exposed to the ravages of the enemy. Repeated calls have been made upon me by the brigadier-general commanding in that district and by the Governor of the State for re-enforcements, which I have been unable to furnish. I have not heretofore urged upon the War Department the importance of sending additional forces here, because I knew the Government was sorely pressed for men in Virginia and North Georgia, and I appreciated the paramount importance of concentrating all available forces to resist successfully the two grand armies of the enemy. In view now of the exposed condition of this department, the readiness with which the force in my front may be greatly increased, and of the recent success attending the operations of the enemy's naval force in Mobile Bay, I respectfully urge that re-enforcements be sent to this military department at the earliest day practicable.

SAM. JONES,
Major-General, Commanding.

General S. COOPER,

Adj. and. Insp. General.