HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
New Orleans, January 23, 1864

Major General H. W. HALLECK,

Commander-in-Chief, &c.:

GENERAL: Your dispatches of the 4th and the 11th January are received, the first on the 13th instant and the second by the mail to-day. I am much gratified to know that General Sherman is instructed to co-operate with the commands on the Mississippi. With the forces you propose, I concur in your opinion,and with Generals Sherman and Steele, "that the Red River is the shortest and best line of defense for Louisiana and Arkansas, and as a base of operations against Texas," but it would be too much for General Steele or myself to undertake separately. With our united forces and the assistance of General Sherman the success of movements on that line will be certain and important. I shall most cordially co-operate with them in executing your orders.

With my own command I can operate with safety, only on the coast of Texas, but from the coast I could not penetrate far into the interior, nor secure control of more than the country west of San Antonio. On the other line, with commensurate forces, the whole State as well as Arkansas and Louisiana, will be ours, and their people will gladly renew their allegiance to the Government. The occupation of Shreveport will be to the country west of the Mississippi what that of Chattanooga is to the east, and as soon as this can be accomplished the country west of Shreveport will be in condition for movement into Texas. I have written to General Sherman and General Steele, in accordance with these views, and shall be ready to act with them as soon as the Atchafalaya and Red River will admit the navigation of our gun-boats. Our supplies can be transported by the Red River until April at least. In the mean time the railway from Vicksburg to Shreveport ought to be completed, which would furnish communication very comfortably for the whole of Eastern Texas. I do not mean that operations should be deferred of this purpose, but as an ultimate advantage in the occupation of these States and the establishment of governments it would be of great importance.

I inclose to you with this communication a very complete map* of the Red River country and Texas, which embraces all the information we have been able to obtain up to this time. It has been prepared by Major D. C. Houston, of the engineer corps, and will show that we have not overlooked the importance of this line. Accompanying the map is a memoir, which exhibits the difficulties that are to be overcome. To this I respectfully ask your attention. I have sent to General Sherman and General Steele copies of this map. I shall be ready to move to Alexandria as soon as the rivers are up, most probably marching by Opelousas. This will be necessary to turn the forts on Red River and open the way for the gun-boats. From that point I can operate with General Steele north or south of Red River, in the direction of Shreveport, and from thence await your instructions. I do not think operations will be delayed on my account. I have received a dispatch from General Sherman, in which he expresses a wish to enter upon this campaign, but had not at that time received orders upon the subject.

I do not think it expedition to give up the occupation of Matagorda Bay, which is a key point of Texas, and may be of great service hereafter in communication with the coast from the interior, but the force will be reduced to the lowest number consistent with the safe occupation of Matagorda Island. I have a small force east of Lake Pontchartian, sent over to cover an effort, to obtain lumber and other quartermaster's stores, and which will be withdrawn as soon as we have active field duty. I can concentrate on Red River all my force available for active service except the garrisons at Matagorda and Brownsville, which will be small. I am very much gratified by the report of re-enforcements to which your dispatches refer.

With great respect,&c.,

N. P. BANKS,

Major-General, Commanding.