FORT GASTON, CAL., September 13, 1862

SIR: The detachment under my command left this post on the morning of the 9th instant, withorders to proceed to Camp Anderson and report to Lieutenant W. H. Noyes, Company F, Second Infantry California Volunteers. On arriving at that place I made my report, and, Lieutenant Noyes being sick, he placed the detachment under my command, which consisted of thirty men of Company F and five men of Company I, Second Infantry California Volunteers, making a total of thirty-five men, with one guide and one Indian boy. About daylight on the morning of the 10th instant left Camp Anderson with instructions from Lieutenant Noyes to take five days' provisions and scout along Redwood Creek and the headwaters of Grouse Creek. Durin this day we scouted as far as Pardee's ranch (saw no Indian signs), and, as ordered, sent a messenger to Rocky Ridge Camp to report to Lieutenant-Colonel Olney, and if he was not there to report to Captain Theller. The messenger returned that some evening and reported not having seen either of the above-named officers. My party then started to the place where the skirmish and taken place between the detachment under Lieutenant Noyes and the Indians, where we arrived about noon of the 11th instant. Here we found the relative position of the Indians was vastly superior to that of the detachment, having the advantage of natural barricades and a plunging fire on the animals and men. They had also a fortification built out of loose rock, and so situated as to have any party advancing toward them exposed to three fires, which if wel directed would sweep off a considerable number of men. I found also that they had closely watched the party under Lieutenant Noyes, judging from numerous decoy fires at different parts of the hill, and they, the Indians, not knowing at what piont they would be attacked, had arranged themselves in different positions to receive them. It is my opinion and of others who were at the spot that 100 men placed in the same position as the Indians could keep 500 men at bay. On the evening of the 11th instant we encamped about half a mile from the place of attack, and myself with a party of nine men scouted around to see if we could find what direction the Indians had taken. As we approached the headwaters of Grouse Creek, we found that the Indians had scattered part of them going toward Pilot Creek and another portion taking down Grouse Creek. Our rations having nearly been used up, we started for Fort Gaston on the same night, and reached the headwaters of Willow Creek about daylight of the morning of the 12th. We found several rancheria that had been recently used by the Indians for roasting of drying beef, so we marched on the greater part of that day and encamped at Rocky Ridge. Found no Indian signs, and on the morning of the 13th pursued our way and arrived at Fort Gaston about 3 p. m.

The above is very respectfully submitted by your obedient servant,

EDWARD COLLINS,

Third Sergt. Co. F, 2nd Infty. California Vols., Commanding Detach.

Captain C. D. DOUGLAS.

Commanding Company F, Second Infantry California Volunteers.