Lieutenant Colonel FRANCIS A. WALKER,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 5. Report of Colonel De Witt C. Baxter, Seventy-second Pennsylvania Infantry, commanding First Brigade.

HDQRS. FIRST BRIGADE, SECOND DIV., SECOND CORPS,
February 8, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to present the following report of the operations of the First Brigade in the late reconnaissance made by the Second Corps:

In compliance with orders received on the morning of the 6th instant, the brigade moved into position on the right of the division at 7. 30 a. m., and proceeded to Morton's Ford via Stevensburg. The Third Division of the Second Corps having crossed part of its command, the remaining portion was formed in line, in an open field, in full view of the enemy, this brigade forming the second line, also in full view, about 100 paces in the rear, with its left resting on the road leading to the ford. The Third Division having been thrown across the river, this brigade was moved forward upon the ground they left. In this position it remained until about 7 o'clock in the evening, when it was conducted by the right flank across the river, and joined upon the right of Colonel Carroll's brigade to the Third Division. Detachments from the Eighty-second New York, Nineteenth Maine, and Fifteenth Massachusetts Volunteers were immediately deployed as skirmishers, connecting with Caroll's line, prolonging it to the right nearly to the river.

It was now so dark that objects could not be distinguished at 10 paces. About 10 o'clock received orders to relieve all the skirmishers belonging to the Third (General Hays') Division. In consequence of the extreme darkness, and an evident error on the part of some of the officers of the Third Division line, much time was lost and great risk was occasioned in executing this order. The Fourth Ohio Volunteers were promptly and properly relieved, they remaining at their posts until relieved, all the others having withdrawn before being relieved, making it necessary to establish a new line, the direction of which could not be correctly ascertained on account of the darkness. Once the line was conducted to within less than 20 paces of the enemy's line, and, if it had not have drawn their fire, would in all probability have marched into and beyond their line without discovering the mistake in time to avert serious danger.

All the troops having been withdrawn to the north side of the river, none were left but the skirmish line. General Webb being upon the ground, directed the necessary arrangements for the withdrawal of these, which was done as nearly as possible as directed, in doing which a detachment of 75 men from the Nineteenth Maine Volunteers, under the command of Captain Nash, was stationed about the house and grounds lately occupied as the headquarters of General Hays. Detachments from the Fifteenth Massachusetts, Nineteenth Maine, and Eighty-second New York Volunteers, numbering about 150 men, were posted about 100 rods to the south and west of the ford, on the brow of a hill. Those at the house were ordered to remain about two hours and a half, if not molested, and then quietly fall back to within 100 rods of the bridge at the ford, and there remain until daylight; but if attacked, both detachments were ordered to fall back in good order and cross the bridge, but to make all reasonable resistance without risking a capture. To insure the safety of these men another detachment of about 30 men, under command of Captain Spaulding, was posted about 20 rods in front of the bridge, deployed, with instructions to hold the bridge until all the others should cross. Another detachment of about 50 men, under command of Captain Hamilton, of the One hundred and fifty-second New York Volunteers, was posted upon the island and along the left bank of the river covering the island, with instructions to act on the defensive, but not to leave their position on the river without orders. The rest of the brigade was now withdrawn as quietly as possible to the north side of the river, and reoccupied the ground they had left in the evening before crossing. This was about 2. 30 o'clock in the morning (the 7th).

The enemy, discovering the withdrawal of the line on part of their front, made an advance; but coming in contact will the left of the detachment under Captain Cummings they opened fire, which was instantly returned, and had the effect to check their movements in that direction. Finding them making an effort to turn his flank, Captain Cummings quietly fell back to the bridge and crossed to the island, from which he was ordered to his regiment. Captain Nash, finding the enemy encroaching and his friends on his right gone, also fell back, and was ordered to his regiment. Captain Spaulding, seeing the last of the other detachments pass the bridge, crossed with his command also. The pickets on the island and left bank of the river remained - those on the island until daylight.

In about a half hour after the last detachment crossed the bridge a mounted soldier approached the bridge to the very abutment,. when he was fired on from the island. The shot was though to have taken effect, as he exclaimed as though wounded, turned to the rear, and left in a few minutes. About a dozen mounted men approached the river, opposite the island, and fired, when those upon the island returned the fire and drove them off. They then sent a strong body of skirmishers and filled the rifle-pits. At this Captain Hamilton withdrew his pickets from the island, but not without exchanging shots with the enemy. Captain Hamilton remained on duty, guarding the ford all day. At 6. 30 p. m. the brigade was ordered back to camp, where they arrived about 9. 30.

The total loss in this brigade was 2 wounded - Sergt. J. N. Hinkley and Private James F. Chase, both of the Nineteenth Maine Volunteers.

Nine muskets, abandoned by the enemy in the morning, were placed in charge of Lieutenant West, of the One hundred and twenty-fifth new York Volunteers, with instructions to turn them over to his division commander.

With much respect,

D. W. C. BAXTER,

Colonel, Commanding First Brigade.