Lieutenant J. S. SULLIVAN, Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 12. Report of Colonel Charles J. Powers, One hundred and eighth New York Infantry, commanding Second Brigade.

HDQRS. SECOND Brigadier, THIRD DIV., SECOND ARMY CORPS,
February 10, 1864.

LIEUTENANT: I have the honor to report the part taken by my command in the reconnaissance made by the corps to Morton's Ford, on the Rapidan River, the 6th and 7th instant, and in the action across the river on the 6th instant:

In compliance with circular order received from division headquarters at 5. 30 a. m. of the 6th instant, the command was formed in line on the Morton's Ford [road], 1 mile north of the ford, at 8 a. m. of that day, the men supplied with three days' rations in haversack and 40 rounds of ammunition, and there awaited the arrival of the division. On its arrival its position was taken in rear of the First Brigade, same division, which at once moved down the Morton's Ford road to the ford. After a crossing had been effected, and the Third and First Brigades, Third Division, had gained possession of the south bank, under direction of the general commanding division, this brigade crossed over by fording the stream at about 1 p. m., and were directed to form in line of battle in rear of a house situated on rising ground to the left and southerly from the ford, which was not accomplished, however, without several casualties, as the enemy's artillery fire struck the column twice during its passage across the exposed ground. Behind this house the brigade lay in quiet and safety until nearly 5 p. m., when the enemy opened with a full battery from rising ground to the right and front, at a distance of about 1,000 yards, and immediately following with an impetuous attack of his infantry upon the skirmish line occupied by part of the Third Brigade, the right of which line was driven. By direction of the division commander the brigade was immediately advanced to the crest of the hill, the Fourteenth Connecticut Volunteers to retrieve the lost skirmish ground and support the line, the Twelfth New Jersey Volunteers moving to the front but obliquely to the balance of the command, consisting of the One hundred and eighth New York Volunteers, First Delaware Volunteers, and Tenth New York Battalion, which lay down along the crest and near the house. The attack of the enemy was very persistent and continued. The Fourteenth Connecticut Volunteers were being pressed hard, and it was found necessary to send still to that point the One hundred and eighth and Tenth New York Volunteers, when they together made a firm advance of a good 500 yards and drove the enemy from a group of small houses and trees. It was now quite dark, and after a considerable musketry of half an hour longer all firing ceased. At 10 p. m. the line was relieved by the Second Division of the corps, and under orders the brigade recrossed the river without molestation, and took position in line fronting the river, about 1,500 yards to the left of the Morton's Ford road, with orders to remain and arrest any attack of the enemy. Here they remained until dark of the 7th, when the corps returned to its camp left on the morning of the 6th, I being ordered to leave a strong force to picket the front and guard the ford until morning. In this duty I detailed the Fourteenth Connecticut Volunteers, consisting of about 250 men under Lieutenant Colonel S. A. Moore. And now the command is safely in their old camp, in a better condition as to health than before those two days of exposure in deep streams, inclement weather, and the close engagement of a formidable enemy.

To distinguish between the conduct of the different officers and men of the command, where all were at their posts, is difficult. The Fourteenth Connecticut, One hundred and eighth New York, and Tenth Battalion deserve great credit for the heavy fighting they did, driving a superior force of the enemy and frequently using the bayonet. Lieutenant Colonel T. H. Davis, Lieutenant Colonel F. E. Pierce, Lieutenant Colonel S. A. Moore, Captain Dewey, and Captain Tait, commanding, respectively, the Twelfth New Jersey, One hundred and eighth New York, Fourteenth Connecticut Volunteers, Tenth New York Battalion, and First Delaware Battalion, did their whole duty. Captain W. H. Andrews, acting assistant adjutant-general; Captain W. H. Hawley, acting assistant inspector-general, and Lieutenants Porter and Du Bois, aides-de-camp, on my staff, I desire to mention as having made themselves distinguished by their bearing and coolness before the enemy.

A nominal list of casualties, as corrected, accompanies this. It may be summed up in numbers as follows:

Killed. Wounded. Missing.

Command. 	 Office	 Men. 	 Offic	 Men. 	 Office	 Men.

 rs. 	 	 ers. 	 	 rs.



108th New	 . . . 	 . . . 	 1	 6	 . . . 	 . . .

York.



14th	 . . . 	 6	 7	 83	 1	 18

Connecticut

Volunteers.



12th New	 . . . 	 . . . 	 . . .	 11	 . . . 	 . . .

Jersey

Volunteers.



Battalion 10th	 . . . 	 1	 . . .	 2	 . . . 	 . . .

New York

Volunteers.



1st Delaware	 . . . 	 . . . 	 . . .	 6	 . . . 	 4

Volunteers.



Total. 	 . . . 	 7	 8	 108	 1	 22

Killed, 7; wounded, 116; missing, 23. Aggregate loss, 146.

I am, lieutenant, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

CHARLES J. POWERS,

Colonel 108th New York Vols., Commanding Brigade.