OFFICE OF CHIEF ENGINEER, DEPT. OF THE GULF,

New Orleans, La., June 1, 1864.

Major GEORGE B. DRAKE,

Assistant Adjutant-General:

SIR: In pursuance of Special Orders, No. 16, headquarters Division of West Mississippi, referred to me for report, I have the honor to report as follows: The engineer troops in this department consist of five regiments of colored troops, with an aggregate of about 2,200, organized as infantry, but with a special view to the engineer service. The officers were selected as far as possible with a special to this service. These regiments have been employed on the construction of field-works, and with the army as pontoniers and prisoners. They were formerly denominated engineer regiments, numbering from 1 to 5; but by a recent order from the Adjutant-General, have been classed as infantry and numbered from 95 to 99, inclusive. These regiments are posted as follows: The Ninety-fifth at Brazos Island, Point Isabel, and Brownsville; the Ninety-sixth at New Orleans, en route to Port Hudson; the Ninety-seventh and Ninety-ninth with the army at Morganza, and the Ninety-eighth at Berwick City (west side of Berwick Bay). These regiments are all armed and equipped, but the arms are very inferior, being principally old smooth-bore muskets possessing no accuracy of fire.

There is also a detachment of pontoniers (about 35) now with the army at Morganza. This detachment is slowly increasing by recruits, and if the men can be obtained will constitute a company of 150 men. There is one bateau bridge in the department; 180 feet at Morganza and 280 feet at New Orleans. This bridge is much worn and requires considerable repairs. There is also a new canvas-boat bridge at New Orleans, 600 feet long, with wagons and tools complete. A few alternations are required, which will be made in a few days. There will be required for this bridge fifty 6-mule teams, six 4-mule teams, harness, and six army wagons. I have now employed quite a large topographical force of engineers and draughtsmen, which has been necessary in this department. They are at present employed in making surveys and plotting notes recently taken in the field. I propose to reduce this force as soon as this work is finished. Almost all the topographical information that it is possible to obtain of this department has been compiled, and is to be found on the maps in this office. Of the country now actually controlled by our forces we have now nearly all the information necessary for military purposes, and surveys are now going on which will render this complete.

The field-works now occupied by our forces in Louisiana are as follows:

Port Hudson.- The enemy's line of works has been repaired and somewhat strengthened, and arranged for field artillery. An interior and very strong line of works has been constructed, designed for a garrison of 2,500 or 3,000 men. This line is finished, as far as its defensive properties are concerned, but considerable work is yet required to properly finish the works.

Baton Rouge.-The grounds of the U. S. arsenal are inclosed by an irregular parapet. This line was first laid out by General Weitzel and has since been strengthened.

Plaquemine.-A work was commenced this spring by the commanding officer of the post and is now nearly finished.

Donaldsonville.-There is a very strong recount at this place.

Brashear City.-There is a square, bastioned fort at this place, large enough to hold a garrison of 800 men, provided with bomb-profess, magazines, and a well.

Berwick City.-There is a large and very strong tete-de-pont constructed on the west bank of Berwick Bay, which was originally built to cover the retreat of our army from New Iberia last fall, when it was threatened by superior numbers. There are also some small defensive works above the Opelousas railroad.

New Orleans.-The land approaches to the city are defended by the lines constructed by the rebels, which have been somewhat strengthened and modified since their occupation by our forces. The lines I consider sufficient to hold the city in the present position of affairs. In case of a large reduction of our force, some additional works and arrangements would be required to insure safety. I will communicate more in detail on this subject in a subsequent report . It may be remarked that the navy can defend New Orleans, having complete control of the river, more effectually than is the case with any other position of equal importance.

In regard to the "posts in this department necessary to be held, and the strength of the garrisons required in each," I would report as follows: The two main routes of approach of an army from Western Louisiana are, first, by Brashear City, and, second, by the upper Atchafalaya, crossing at Simsport or other points above the mouth of the Courtableau, following the Grossetete Valley to Indian Village, crossing Plaquemine and moving by different routes to the La Fourche. The latter route was that taken by the enemy last summer during the latter part of the siege of Port Hudson. From my present information I am of the opinion that the best line of occupation for our forces west of the Mississippi River is the line from Plaquemine to Brashear City, following the lower Grand River. It will be seen from the maps that the only points at which a large force can cross this line are, first, in the vicinity of Plaquemine and Indian Village, and, second, at Brashear City. The country between these points and to the west of Grand Bayou is intersected by numerous bayou and swamps, and is destitute of routes by which an army can move. Small bodies of men, however, can penetrate the region in boats, and guerrilla operations can be extensively carried on, as well as smuggling, to a great extent; and I am credibly informed that these operations have been extensively carried on.

The occupation of the line would require, then, first, the occupation of Plaquemine and Indian Village by a force which should cover the line from the Mississippi to the mouth of Grand River, a distance of about 8 miles; second, the occupation of Brashear City; third, a reserve on the La Fourche, with headquarters at Napoleonville and outposts on all the roads leading west as far as Grand Bayou; fourth, a cavalry force to patrol the line of Grand Bayou and to scout on all the approaches to the line above indicated. All these forces should constitute a single command. I believe that this disposition of forces would be the most economical that can be adopted, unless the entire territory west of the Mississippi is abandoned. By this plan the entire triangle bounded by the Mississippi, Gulf of Mexico, and the line from Plaquemine to the mouth of the Atchafalaya will be kept free from rebel raids; protection will be continued to the inhabitants of the country, and the city of New Orleans be kept free from all excitement produced by the near approach of rebel forces.

The presence of gun-boats at Berwick Bay will materially assist in the defense of that position, which can only be taken by a force crossing in boats and investing the place by the rear. The position at Indian Village and points in that vicinity at which the bayou can be crossed can be fortified. I would estimate the forces necessary to hold this line at 12,000 troops, white and black; 1,500 should be cavalry. The infantry and artillery should be posted as follows: Four thousand five hundred at Plaquemine, Indian Village, and vicinity; 5,500 on the La Fourche and picketing all the routes leading in from the west; 2,000 at Brashear City and on the railroad west of La Fourche Bayou. Each of these forces should have selected a defensive point on the Mississippi to which they could retire in case of necessity, those at Indian Village to Plaquemine or Bayou Goula; those on the La Fourche can best reach the river at Donaldsonville. There is also a road leading direct from Thibodeaux to the Mississippi; this latter road requires repairs. With this disposition of forces and with proper watchfulness, there will always be time to withdraw the force at Brashear City, should this become advisable. As to the approaches from the east, I consider that, in addition to the garrisons at Baton Rouge and Port Hudson, and the garrisons of the permanent posts, a force of 6,000 men will be sufficient for the defense of New Orleans, the only approaches being by Pass Manchac and Bonnet Carre. Any large force approaching New Orleans from the east must eventually encounter our defensive line at Camp Parapet, which can easily be held by the force mentioned, assisted by the gun-boats on the flank. This force foots up to 18,000, which is the minimum, in my opinion, for the defense of New Orleans and the river, including the occupation of the territory already under our control.

This plan does not involve the abandonment of any positions now occupied by our troops, and I do not consider that any of these positions can be abandoned unless all the troops are withdrawn to the line of the Mississippi. In this case the troops on the west bank of the river should be posted in strong redoubts at suitable points along the river, where they could receive the maximum assistance from the navy. The garrisons of these works should number about 800 each. These works, being strong enough to resist any sudden assault, will serve as a rendezvous for our fleet, and enable re-enforcements to be promptly landed at the threatened point. The main force should be posted on the right bank of the river opposite New Orleans, to prevent the occupation of that position by the enemy. The total force might thus be reduced to 12,000 men. Id in addition to these garrisons, a movable force is organized which can be readily thrown by transports to any point, the problem of holding the river will be solved in the most economical manner possible.

In regard to the positions held on the coast, Fort Pickens and Barrancas require a garrison of 2,000 men. These may be colored troops.

Fort at Ship Island.-This fort is not armed, except with a few naval guns temporarily in position. There is a colored regiment at this post, which is sufficient. The work should be armed as soon as possible, as the position is an important one in view of foreign complications. The casemate tier is ready for its guns. The permanent works in Louisiana are in good order and improvements are being made.

Pass Cavallo, Tex.-This is a point of great importance with reference to future operations, and should be held if the troops can possibly be spared. The garrison now is, I am informed, about 2,500 men. They should be able to maintain their position, which is on an island. The position is intrenched, though originally for a large force.

Brazos Santiago and Brownsville.-These points may be of great importance to us in case of a foreign war or subsequent operations with the rebels, and, like other inlets on the Texas coast, they are very difficult to take if held by the enemy. I consider the harbor of Brazos a very important one in the present position of affairs, and I would recommend the construction of a permanent work for a garrison of 800 men on Brazos Island. This work should command the entrance to the harbor and be strong enough on the land side to require a siege.

Positions necessary to be occupied and garrisons necessary to hold the country now in our possession in the Department of the Gulf.

New Orleans and immediate outposts.........................6,000

Baton Rouge.................................................1,000

Port Hudson.................................................2,500

Plaquemine, Indian Village, and vicinity...................4,500

La Fourche reserve, including Donaldsonville..............5,500

Brashear City and railroad..................................2,000

Total......................................................21,500

A large proportion of these troops may be colored.

Garrisons of other points.

Pensacola.................................................2,000

Ship Island............................................... 500

Pass Cavallo..............................................2,000

Brazos....................................................1,500

Total.....................................................6,000

The above estimates refer to the simple occupation of the territory now held in this department, without reference to the disposition of forces elsewhere on the river, by which they might be materially reduced.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

D. C. HOUSTON,

Major and Chief Engineer, Department of the Gulf.