HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF,
Grand Ecore, La., April 11, 1864.

[Lieutenant Colonel RICHARD B. IRWIN,

Assistant Adjutant-General:]

MY DEAR COLONEL: We have just returned from Pleasant Hill and Mansfield, at both of which places serious actions have taken place. On the morning of last Friday our cavalry advance, after having skirmished for upward of 40 miles, was checked by a determined stand of the enemy's rear guard at a point about 4 miles from Mansfield, called sometimes Sabine Cross-Roads. The entire cavalry force at once deployed in line, and were in action as soon as so deployed. It soon became evident that our force in action was too small. Colonel Landram's division of the Thirteenth Army Corps went in on a hill in the center of the line of battle. The firing now became furious, and a general engagement began. General Cameron's division of the Thirteenth Corps was ordered up and soon became engaged. From the extreme right to the extreme left the most desperate efforts were made to dislodge our first line. After the most dreadful carnage for above three hours, and the most desperate resistance, the line gave way, retiring to a second position. This line was strengthened by new troops, but the enemy came on at a tremendous charge and drove our line in with much confusion and loss. We were now forced back by the impetuous enemy to our reserves. On they came, yelling like demons, firing tremendous volleys of musketry and salvos of artillery . The hopes of the army are concentrated in the reserve, which was General Emory's division of the Nineteenth Army Corps. They were on their knees, not firing a gun until the charge of the enemy reached about 50 yards, when a most furious fire was delivered and continued; not a man wavered. Like a wall of fire they held their position, inflicting the most terrible punishment until night, when the battle closed.

At night our line fell back to Pleasant Hill for water and supplies. They followed us closely, and at about 4 p.m. of the following day engaged us again with renewed vigor and increased forces. As upon the day before, our first line was forced in by overpowering numbers. The Sixteenth Corps came up upon a most magnificent charge, led by Generals Stone and Mower, accompanied by several members of the staff. On they went, with terrible effect, turning the enemy and driving him most disastrously, and continued in pursuit until night. In this action we took a large number of prisoners and guns that had been taken from us the day before. We have now fallen back to our base on Red River, to resupply ourselves with rations and ammunition preparatory to a new advance.

These fights have been as sanguinary as any I have ever seen. The list of killed and wounded is tremendous. For four days I slept on the ground, with nothing but an overcoat, without removing an item of apparel, and with nothing to eat from breakfast to breakfast, and then nothing but hard and salt meat. I shall send you full reports as soon as possible to obtain them. Please forward the inclosed letter, addressed to General McClernand, as soon as possible by a trusty messenger. I return your letter addressed to Colonel Benedict. He was killed at the action near Mansfield.

In reply to your communication of the 4th, I beg leave to report that copies of every order issued have been sent you.

I am, colonel, sincerely yours,

GEO. B. DRAKE,

Assistant Adjutant-General.