ALEXANDRIA, LA., April 12, 1864.

Colonel S. B. HOLABIRD,

Chief Quartermaster, Department of the Gulf:

COLONEL: We have met with a serious reverse at the front, and the army has retreated to Grand Ecore, having lost a train of 165 wagons loaded with commissary stores and forage. I understand that we have lost 3,000 men killed, wounded, and prisoners, and 18 pieces of artillery; Nims lost 4 pieces; Colonel Benedict is killed and General Ransom wounded. I have received urgent orders from General Stone to send up all the commissary and quartermaster stores possible, but have no means of doing it. I have been obliged to send up the Mittie Stevens with commissary stores. The river is falling rapidly, so that boats drawing more than 5 feet 6 inches are unable to cross, and by to-morrow night boats drawing over 5 feet will not be able to cross. The river is falling 4 inches per day steadily. I most urgently request that all boats not drawing over 4 feet loaded may be seized at once and sent up here loaded light, and at the same time well cooled. I think the coast packets might be used in this emergency, and probably three of four stern-wheel boats could be procured at Vicksburg.

I am hauling wood from Governor Moore's plantation, 8 miles from this place, and will soon be out of fuel. I have to request that coal may be sent up as soon as possible. The captain of the steamer Laurel Hill is a scoundrel, and the sooner he is discharged from service the better. On the last strip to New Orleans he managed to smuggle 7 or 8 bales of cotton. On his trip before this from Grand Ecore he bought 11 bales of cotton from Mr. Calhoun's negroes, paying them $240. I had the provost-marshal search his boat; they found 10 bales, and the next morning found 1 more secreted. He told ne that he had given a receipt to 2 negroes in your name, as he said that you had authorized him to do so and that the negroes owned the cotton. To-day Mr. Calhoun came in himself and proved that Thomas had stolen the cotton, paying the sum above mentioned to the negroes, and besides had stolen a number of sheep, turkeys, &c. He is a hard case; his clerk is worthless; pays no attention to his business whatever.

Very respectfully,

D. N. WELCH,

Assistant Quartermaster.