7th.-Marched to Widow Thomas' place, or Gunter Valley, in Howell Country. Learned here that there were several guerrillas in the immediate vicinity, and that a small party of them had on the 6th instant hung a man by the name of Judd, and learned from him that there were 84 men, under Captain Evans, about 10 miles from Thomasville, awaiting our approach. We found that we could do but little with twice our number of men, whom we heard were well mounted and armed. Lieutenant bold dispatched our situation to headquarters at Houston. The command encamped at Judd's, having marched 15 miles. 8th.-Scouted and foraged in the neighborhood; camped at Prock's, having marched 10 miles. 9th.-About 7 o'clock Lieutenant Hillerich arrived from Houston with 50 men and one piece of artillery. We soon formed in order, intending to march for Thomasville, when am an came from that place and informed us that Captain Evans had found out that we were expecting re-enforcements and had started before daylight in the direction of Perkins' place, on Warm Fork of Spring River. We immediately changed our course, intending, if possible, to fall in with Captain Evans; marched 24 miles, and camped at Roberts'. 10th.-Started in good time and marched to the Thomasville and Batesville road. Had gone about 1 miles when we saw 3 men coming toward us, who see in guns turned and ran. We pursued and shot one of them; the others escaped. We then continued our march toward Spring River Mills, and about 3 miles farther on we took a man whose name was Ben Carter; but he thought us Southern troops, and when the command came up he recognized some among them and immediately broke and ran, nor could he be made to stop until the was shot down. We camped on Warm Fork, about 1 miles above the head of Spring River. In the evening we took 15 men and went up Two-Mile Creek; saw two men run from a house; we pursued and killed one of them, but the other escaped; returned to camp, having marched to-day 25 miles. 11th.-Last night we were fired into. The men fell in in good order and promptly returned the fire. Two rounds were fired on each side, and the firing ceased. In about a half hour they returned and gave us another volley. Our guard, which was detailed for the purpose, attacked and drove them back. They returned in an hour and fired six or seven shots, but our fire was too strong for them and they left. None of our men were hurt. We heard nothing more of the rebels that night.

In the morning we started for James' Creek. Had marched about 3 miles when we found a house in which were stored two barrels of salt, some guns, and ammunition. We burned the house and everything in it, not allowing any contraband property to be removed at all. We had just reached safe distance from the house when we heard a loud report, which we afterwards learned was made by a keg of gunpowder which had been concealed under the floor of the house. We then marched to James' Creek and camped. Lieutenant Hillerich took 15 men and went a man who said he could on us to the house of the rebel Captain Orchards. We proceeded on our way a half mile farther, when we took another man. This man gave his name Henery, and he looked somewhat frightened. We asked him if he knew of any troops being in that neighborhood. He said that he did not. We then asked him where Freeman was,to which he replied that he knew nothing of Freeman whatever, or of any other command. While pursued and killed 2 of them; one of them proved to be William Lamb, a brother-in-law to Freeman and acting quartermaster to Freeman's regiment. Henery said to the men who guarded him, as soon as we started in the chase, that we had better be called back, for Freeman was camped less than 2 miles below with a strong force; but the information came too late to stop us, and in the charge we got scattered, and when all assembled at the starting point one of the scouts was missing (Woods). One of the men reported that he had seen, while passing through the woods, several men well armed and mounted, and this, together with the prisoner's statement of Freeman's camp, caused our squad to return to camp, thinking that Woods might have gone before them, but when they arrived in camp they found that he had not yet come in, and he was supposed to be taken in by the rebels. The command was in motion soon and moving in the direction of Freeman's camp; had marched about 1 mile when Woods came in all right. A council was then held, and it was determined that we should return to our camp, pick our ground, and prepare to act on the defensive in case of an attack, which we looked for that night. Marched that day 20 miles.