HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF WESTER ARIZONA,
Tucson, Ariz. Ter., September 15, 1862.

His Excellency IGNACIO PESQUEIRA,

Governor of Sonora, Republic of Mexico, Ures, Sonora:

Your Excellency I fear will think I am a troublesome neighbor. I have the honor to address you now on a subject of vital interest to Sonora and Arizona. Its importance is my apology for troubling you. Your Exellency will at once agree with me that the greatest enemy to the progress, prosperity, and development of these rich mineral, pastoral, and agricultural regions is the treacherous Apache. My object is to bring abot a perfect understanding, combined efforts, harmony of design, and unity of purpose between Your Excellency and your people and the authorities and inhabitants of this Territory, in regard to these Apaches, who have so long been the scourge and terror of Arizona and Sonora. I have been informed that several hundreds of Indians have been very lately in Fronteras, Sonora, making preparations for hostilities against the troops, citizens, residents, and travelers of Arizona, and that they even had the effrontery to send a deputation to Your Excellency, with the hopes of obtaining a treaty of peace, in order that they might with more impunity commit their atrocities in this Territory. I know the answer Your Excellency would make to such an infamous proposal, for you are well informed of their treachery and of the end they desire in asking for peace, though they would of course try to conceal it. I imagine I see Your Excellency rise in indignation and order the savage embassy that would dare to ask peace from the ruler of a people whose blood they have been wantonly shedding for over a century to be arrested. It appears to me, sir, that in view of the fact that there ae several towns on the fronties of Sonora, Frnteras, and Janos in particular, where Apaches rendezvous for the purpose of obtaining supplies of ammunition, &c., and of disposing of the effects of their murdered victims, it would cterests of Sonora and Arizona that the troops of either nation should have the right of following the barbarous enemy beyond the frontiers of the other. For my part, I would be very glad to see the troops of our sister Republic follow Apaches to any part of this Territory, and would respectfully ask of Your Excellency to grant to our troops the right to cross the frontiers of your State in pursuit of the inhuman enemies of civilization. It seems almost incredible that people claiming to be civilized should, as it is said the people of Fronteras and Janos do, allow their towns to be made cities of refuge and depots of supply ofr the wretched Indians whose sole object in life appears to be to rob, torture, and murder all who do not belong to their accursed tribes. It is said these people so far forget themselves as to give timely warning to the savages when danger threatens them. This, with the alleged fact that they furnish them the means of dealing death and destruction to their own people, their kindred and friends, puts them on a level with the Apaches. I am well infnormed of Your Excellency's sense of justice in regard to this subject, and realize and appreciate the obstacles and difficulties besetting your path in carrying out your designs in regard to the Apaches and their aiders and abettors on the frontiers. I am well persuaded that once an understanding is had between Your Excellency and the military authorities of this Territory in regard to the right of the troops of either nation crossing the frontiers of the other, the Apache race will cease to be formidable, and when it is convenient for the troops of both nations to act jointly against the common enemy, it will, in my opinion, be very desirable to do so. I submit these considerations to Your Excellency, with th ehope that you may agree with me, and that hereafter we may act as one against the enemy of both. I would also trouble Your Excellency on another subjewhen the troops of the Republic of Mexico were withdrawn from the Presidio of Tucson that the military commandant took the records of the town to Sonora with him. Many of the people here, being simple-minded persons, have not the proper titles to prove their right to property really belonging to them, having either failed to get written grants or having lost the evidences necessary to establish their claims. Many of the citizens of Sonora also have equitable claims difficult to establish. Without the records it will be impracticable to settel questions of titles to land, thus giving unprincipled men and advantage over honest men, who cannot establish their rights. Your Excellency would confer a great favor and further the ends of justice by ordering the return of the records referred to if they are not necessary for the archives of your State.

I have the honor to be, sir, with sentiments of distinguished consideration and respect,

D. FERGUSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding.