HDQRS. DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, DEPT. OF THE SOUTH, Jacksonville, July 7, 1864.

Captain W. L. M. BURGER,
Assistant Adjutant-General:

CAPTAIN: The apprehensions expressed by me to the major-general commanding in regard to the probable movements of the enemy appear to be justified by the facts, as a movement of the rebel forces has been made toward Yellow Bluff. Major Mayer, of that place, reports that Colonel McCormick, Second Florida Cavalry, has taken his advance camp on the headquarters of Trout Creek. A rebel vedette has been pushed to the Saint John's, between Trout and Cedar Creeks, and five torpedoes have been taken up by our boats in that vicinity yesterday and to-day. The lookout on our signal tower reports a number of camp-fires seen for two days in the neighborhood of Trout Creek. In the course of to-morrow I hope to know what the force of rebels is, and I shall attack them just as soon as Colonel Beecher's regiment gets its arms, which I trust will be by the next boat.

I send up the camp and garrison equipage of the Seventh U. S. Colored Troops. That of the Seventy-fifth Ohio Volunteers cannot be found; it is probably at Picolata, where are now the headquarters of the regiment.

On my return I find that the horses necessary to the battery have not been supplied, owing to the losses by glandes, and that it is impossible to put in service more than five of these fully equipped. I trust the major-general will send these back as soon as they can be spared from his operations, for in my present paucity of numbers this battery is my best available means of attack. As the lower Saint John's is my weak point, and a most important one, I shall move with what troops I have and drive the enemy from Trout Creek at all hazards. Colonel Beecher's regiment, the Thirty-fifth U. S. Colored Troops, numbers only a little over 320 men for active duty; of these 90 are without arms, and the rest have four kinds of arms, none of them fit for service. The battalion at Stono River is armed with the Springfield rifle muskets, and I have written an important request to the Head to forward to this place the rest of the arms required.

With the most earnest hope for the success of the major-general, I remain, your obedient servant,

WM. BIRNEY,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.