HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE NORTHWEST,
Milwaukee, Wis., January 18, 1864.

Brigadier General H. H. SIBLEY,

Commanding District of Minnesota, Saint Paul, Minn.:

GENERAL: I transmit inclosed copy of a letter to General Sully for your information. The posts at Devil's Lake and on James River will be established by you as early in the spring as possible. It is my purpose that the whole cavalry force in your district shall be massed, with two or three pieces of field artillery, to take the field as nearly as possible in the spring and sweep the whole region now occupied by hostile Indians north of the line from Fort Pierre to Abercrombie.

They should go as little encumbered with trains as possible. From the most available points the companies of infantry designated for the post at Devil's Lake will be brought together at Abercrombie, and will from there escort the provision trains to their post. The companies of infantry for the post on James River will be assembled on the upper Minnesota at such point as you deem best, and will thence march to their post in charge of trains of supplies. All the supplies which it is possible to carry with the wagons in your district must be sent. If larger escorts of infantry be necessary they must be sent, but the extra companies will return again to Minnesota as soon as the posts are fairly established. You will select the cavalry companies for each post and directed them to proceed to their stations as soon as their summer campaign is over.

The infantry companies for these new posts must be taken from the same regiment. The colonel of the infantry regiment will command the post at Devil's Lake: the colonel of the cavalry regiment the post on James River. One of the first things to be done is to open a trail from Devil's Lake to the post below Fort Clarke, and from the post on James River to Fort Pierre. As soon as practicable after the troops arrive at their stations, all the wagon trains will be sent to Fort Pierre from the post on James River, and from Devil's Lake to the post below Fort Clarke. This latter post will be the depot for the supply of Devil's Lake; Fort Pierre for the supply of the post on James River. The trains will be loaded and sent back from the Missouri to their new posts by General Sully, and if necessary to supply the garrison they must make several trips during the season.

Let me know your views upon this subject, and report to me fully the means of transportation to carry out these movements. Forts Abercrombie, Ridgely, and Ripley will be maintained, with garrisons hereafter to be designated. Something of a line of frontier stations along the outer settlements of Minnesota will be temporarily kept up until the foregoing movements are fully completed. I have not yet decided whether a post at Pembina will be necessary after these arrangements have been fully completed. Write me fully on the subject herein set forth.

I am, general, respectfully, your obedient servant,

JNO. POPE,

Major-General, Commanding.

I omitted to state that a trail should be opened, as soon as possible after the establishment of the new posts, between the post on James River and the post on the Missouri near Fort Clarke. This trail will be nearly on the direct route from Minnesota to Dakota mines.