HDQRS. DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, DEPT. OF THE SOUTH, Jacksonville, July 22, 1864.

Colonel JAMES SHAW, JR.,
Commanding Seventh U. S. Colored Troops:

COLONEL: The general commanding directs that the following instructions will be observed by you:

First. Embark your command at 3 p. m. to-day.

Second. Go up the river so as to arrive at the gun-boat Hale, at the mouth of Black Creek, at 7 p. m.

Third. Land your troops at the landing indicated by Lieutenant Burton, aide-de-camp, who will get a pilot for one of the boats. The landing is to be made in the quickest possible time from each boat, and each boat, as soon as emptied, will return at quick speed to Mandarin to bring up the Seventy-fifth Ohio Volunteers with their horses.

Fourth. As soon as you have cavalry, the people from all the houses from which you suppose spies might go to give information to the enemy must be cautioned, under penalty of death, not to leave their premises for three days.

Fifth. The crossings of Black Creek at and above Middleburg must be secured and watched, so as to prevent the destruction of the bridges. This should be done secretly as possible, the sentinels being made to conceal themselves, and the supports must be hidden in the bushes or under other cover.

Sixth. It is considerable that every person, civilian or soldier, man, woman, or child, coming within our lines, should be detained in safe custody until after the safe departure of our troops. They should, however, be sent to some house or other place where they cannot see the number of our troops, which should be kept secret.

Seventh. A limited number of fires may be built for making coffee, keeping off the dew, and drying the men. The places for fires should be carefully selected with a view to screening them from observation.

Eighth. The men shall be kept strictly to their bivouac ground. Stragglers shall be promptly and severely punished.

Ninth. Special importance must be attached to the prompt landing and unloading of the boats. No delay whatever must be allowed. If the whole landing is not effected in two nights the surprise cannot be effected.

Tenth. Vigilant guard shall be kept on all approaches to the camp. In the event of an attack the troops must not only repel, but attack the enemy.

These instructions may be modified by Colonel Shaw as emergencies may require.

By order of Brigadier General William Birney, commanding.

M. BAILEY,

Assistant Adjutant-General.