Report of Major Edward H. Little, One hundred and twenty-seventh New York Infantry, of assault on Fort Johnson and Battery Simkins.

HDQRS. 127TH REGIMENT NEW YORK VOLUNTEERS, Morris Island, S. C., July 3, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to submit the following report:

In compliance with verbal orders received, I embarked the One hundred and twenty-seventh New York Volunteers on the night of the 2nd instant, between the hours 10 and 12. At 1.30 this a. m. we were all in position at Paine's Dock. It was arranged between Colonel Hoyt and myself that his regiment should lead the advance, moving by the right flank, and when he (Colonel Hoyt) had gained sufficient ground to the right he would flank to the left in line of battle toward the works on Johnson's Point. I was to continue moving by the right flank, passing to the rear of the Fifty-second Pennsylvania, and when I had gained sufficient ground to the right to get all my boats in line beyond the bar I was to flank to the left and advance toward Simkins. With this understanding the boats left Paine's Dock at 2 a. m. I had formed the regiment into three divisions of five boats each, Captain Gurney commanding the right, Captain Allison the center, and Captain Henry the left. Each chief of division had a lieutenant in his boat and each of the other boats was commanded by a commissioned officer and ordered to follow their division leaders. My own boat contained, besides myself, the adjutant, sergeant-major, a bugler, and signalman, 4 oarsmen, and a cockswain.

Before we reached the mouth of Vincent's Creek I found that Captains Gurney and Henry's divisions had passed ahead of eight or ten of the boats of the Fifty-second Pennsylvania. I ordered them to halt and allow the Fifty-second Pennsylvania to pass. Soon after the line halted I went forward to see what the trouble was, and found that the boat immediately in advance of the boats containing the major of the Fifty-second Pennsylvania had halted without cause and was between 200 and 300 yards in rear of its file leader. I asked the major if he was aware that the boat ahead of him had stopped. I forget what answer he made, but soon after the line moved on slowly. When near Fort Putnam the line field to the left and advanced a short distance and again halted. I went forward to see what the matter was, and again found that a number of the boats of the Fifty-second Pennsylvania had halted without cause. While urging them to move on, Colonel Hoyt came form the right of the line and ordered them to move on faster, saying that the other boats were half a mile ahead. Again the line moved on somewhat faster. At this time day began to break. In about ten minutes afterward I discovered that a large number of boats were congregated together, some of them with their oars locked, none of them trying to move forward. I found that they had inclined too much to the left, and were south and east from the bar the juts out from Simkins and close to the land. On the other side of the bar I saw two or three boats moving toward Johnson's Point. There was a narrow break as fast as possible and land with the boats ahead. Among this group of boats I found the major of the Fifty-second. I said, "Major Jayne, why don't you exert yourself, and order your boats to move forward?" I cannot remember what reply he made; some one in his boat said that they were awaiting orders, or that somebody wanted to give orders. I asked if the colonel or lieutenant-colonel was there. I could get no answer. About 100 yards in rear of this group I saw a boat that looked like the one used by Colonel Gurney; thinking he was aboard, I rowed out to it. I found it contained Lieutenant Haviland, who was acting as aide to Colonel Gurney. I asked him where Colonel Gurney was. He said Colonel Gurney was at Paine's Dock. I told him that the boats would not move forward. He said, "Shall I tell Colonel Gurney that the movement is a failure?" to which I made no reply, but went back to the boats. I called to the officers of the boats and asked them to land their men: just then the rebels fired their signal gun and immediately opened with their batteries. I called to them again to land; that it was their only chance to save themselves. Some of the boats moved forward through the break in the bar as if to land. Soon after the signal gun was fired the rebels opened a musketry fire form Simkins, which rapidly increased in volume, but without much effect, as we were about 250 yards from the works. When I saw that the boats showed a disposition to land I ordered my boat to pass through the break in the bar in order that I might land above Simkins. As I was moving forward a pontoon got foul of my boat and crowded it against the bank. At this time the rebels fired very rapidly, and were sweeping the beach with grape and canister from a gun at Johnson. I could not see a man or boat on the beach, but as far as I could see to the right the boats were retreating from the beach and heading toward Sumter. Concluding that the movement had been given by Colonel Hoyt, who I judged to be on the right, I ordered my boat to go about. I then found all the boats that were behind me were in full retreat, excepting Captain Henry's pontoon, which had previously landed on the marsh in front of Simkins, and were still firing at the rebels behind that work. When they found that the attack had been abandoned they took to their boat and got off without the loss of a man. I ordered my boat to head for Fort Putnam and finally went into Vincent's Creek and landed at Strong, as my oarsmen had been constantly at work from the time the troops commenced to embark.

If the proper spirit had been shown, if the efforts of the colonel and lieutenant-colonel of the Fifty-second Pennsylvania had been properly supported, I think the movement would have been a success. For my own regiment, I can say that both officers and men obeyed promptly and cheerfully at the orders I gave them.

Following is a list of casualties in my command: Private Lake, Company A, contusion on shoulder from shell; Sergeant Wells, Company G, arm, slight.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

EDWARD H. LITTLE,

Major, Commanding Regiment.

Captain R. H. L. JEWETT,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.