FEBRUARY 11, 1864.-Skirmishes near Madisonville, La.

Report of Lieutenant Henry P. Anderson, Third Maryland Cavalry.

MADISONVILLE, LA., February 12, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to respectfully submit the following report for your observation.

On the morning of the 11th of February, at 3 a. m., a detachment of the Third Maryland Cavalry, consisting of Captain Adolph Bery (the commanding officer), First Lieutenant Henry P. Anderson, 4 sergeants, 3 corporals, and 23 privates, of Squadron C, and Lieutenant Moore, 20 men, and non-commissioned officers of Squadron D; also Dr. Stevenson, ambulance and driver, and a guide by the name of Bailey; all of which started for the point named in your instructions to the commanding officer. The command having reached the pickets on the Ponchatoula road, an advance guard was immediately sent out, consisting of Lieutenant Moore and 12 men of Squadron D. We arrived at Zmr. Fleming's farm, after traveling a distance of 20 miles, about 8.30 a. m., without molestation or difficulty. The property was immediately searched, but nothing was found creating suspicion excepting several camp or picket fires on and about the premises. One man, pretending to be a brother-in-law of Mrs. Fleming, was arrested and closely questioned. He denied all knowledge of the enemy being there, or of their whereabouts, which proved contradictory to the statement of Mrs. Fleming, who acknowledged the presence of rebel soldiers upon the farm. During the examination of the prisoner the report was brought by Corporal Henkel, of Squadron C, to Lieutenant Moore, that a rebel soldier was seen by him standing upon a fence on the edge of the woods about 200 yards distant, in an opposite direction from the house, endeavoring apparently to find out the strength of our force. Lieutenant Moore proceeded immediately with his advance guard to captured him, and if possible to discover the vicinity of others. At the same time Lieutenant Anderson, with a few men, by taking the road to the left, joined in the pursuit. Arriving at the river a junction was formed with Lieutenant Moore, after which, and unexpectedly, we were greeted by a volley of musketry from the other side of the river, Lieutenant Moore at the same time receiving a wound in his back near his right shoulder blade. The depth of the river, the want of crossing, and the impenetrability of the bushes prevented farther pursuit, or any means of discovering the strength or whereabouts of the enemy. We are therefore compelled to fall back on the reserve. A consultation was immediately held, Captain Bery deciding to cross the river by some means with his whole force (excepting 10 men who were left at the house of said Fleming, for the protection of Lieutenant Moore and Dr. Stevenson), pursue the enemy, and if possible overtake them. The guide, Mr. Bailey, advised Captain Bery to give up his plan of pursuit, on the ground that in all probability the enemy were lying in ambush with numbers superior to our own; that we would encounter an almost interminable swamp, and he (Captain Bery) would thereby only incur a needless slaughter and a disaster defeat. In consequence thereof Captain Bery gave up his idea of pursuit, formed his column, and withdrew his force upon the road leading to Mr. Hennen's farm; Lieutenant Moore at the same time being properly cared for and placed in the ambulance, which was sen twit guard to the rear of the new advance sent out by Captain Bery.

Lieutenant Anderson at this time, with 15 men, formed the rear guard. After having proceed about a quarter of a mile several shots were fired from a deserted house upon the roadside, after which Lieutenant Anderson deployed his rear guard as skirmishers in a half-circle, in order to cover the retreat of the main body. Suddenly and unexpectedly we were attacked by a flanking movement which left us but one way of escape. Several volleys, however, were given in return, both by the skirmishers and the main body. The next moment the enemy came down upon us in a full charge, yelling and whooping. From the best of my and my men's judgment, I should conclude their number to be from 70 to 100 men. In the mean time the horse of Captain Bery was shot from under him, which left him in the rear of his column, and consequently, left without a commander, the men became panic-stricken at seeing their commander down and in the hands of the enemy, which caused them to break ranks, and especially so when they discovered the guide at the head of the advance in full retreat. They, as a matter of course, followed hard after. The skirmishers, seeing the main body in full retreat, and all efforts on their part to repel the enemy fruitless, became discouraged and were compelled to seek safety in retreat. All efforts upon my or my sergeants' part to rally the men were of no avail. I endeavored to from the men in line after a retreat of a couple of miles, but the guide objected upon the ground that a creek was running close by, the enemy in sight upon our left, and should we halt in all probability in a few moments we would be cut off and all means of escape futile. He stated that the only chance we had was in gaining the turnpike road, which we reached in safety. The doctor was forced to leave and abandon his ambulance and contents and seek refuge with the main body in retard. The men, when spoken to of the manner in which they retreated, replied they would never stand with such a weapon as the carbine they now have. My sergeants state, of their own personal knowledge, two out of every three shots missed fire. They also state the men would only be throwing away their lives to no purpose whatever, and without benefit to any one.

Our loss consisted, is Squadron C, of 1 captain, 1 corporal, 1 private, besides 3 horses with equipments, 3 carbines, 2 sabers with accouterments, 2 saber blades, 1 pistol; in Squadron D, 1 lieutenant, 2 carbines, 1 saber blade, 1 horse with equipments. Wounded and missing: Squadron C-Captain Adolph Bery, missing; Corpl. John C. Klinke, wounded and missing; Private Wilhelm Engel, wounded and missing; Squadron D-Lieutenant Moore, wounded and missing; Squadron G-Private B. K. Jones (driver), missing; also 1 ambulance, contents, and the 2 horses.

All of which is most respectfully submitted as the true result of the scout by your ordered.

Very respectfully, yours,

HENRY P. ANDERSON,

First Lieutenant, Commanding Company C.

Major BYRON KIRBY,

Commanding Third Maryland Cavalry.