FEBRUARY 17-18, 1864. -Scout from Warrenton, and skirmish near Piedmont, Va.

Report of Lieutenant Colonel John W. Kester, First New Jersey Cavalry.

HEADQUARTERS FIRST NEW JERSEY CAVALRY, February 19, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to report that, in obedience to instructions, I started from Warrenton with 350 men, comprising the following commands: One hundred and fifty, First New Jersey; 100, First Pennsylvania; 50, Third Pennsylvania, and 50, First Massachusetts. It being very cold I marched rapidly, and at Salem I sent Lieutenant Bradbury, Third Pennsylvania, with 50 men of the First Massachusetts, to pass through Upperville and meet the rest of the command at Paris, in Ashby's Gap. I took the main column on the Peidmont. At that point I sent Captain Hart with 150 men of the First New Jersey Cavalry to pass through Peidmont Valley and stop at Paris until I arrived. With 100 men of the First Pennsylvania, under Captain McGregor, and 50 men of the Third Pennsylvania, under Captain Wetherill, I marched to Markham Station in Manassas Gap. From that point I crossed the mountains by a by-path, and joined the other parties at Paris at 12 o'clock on the day of the 18th. The column under Lieutenant Bradbury lost their way and came into Paris without passing through Upperville, and captured some horses and arms without seeing any of the enemy. The column under Captain Hart passed through Piedmont Valley, and surprised and captured 15 of Mosby's guerrillas and furloughed soldiers, and a quantity of arms, equipments, and horses. The other column with myself passed into Manassas Gap to Markham, and furloughed soldiers, and a quantity of arms, equipments, horses, and some medical stores. The latter we destroyed. As we came near Paris about 40 guerrillas charged on my rear guard. I sent a squadron and charged, scattering them. No casualties on our side. I stopped one hour at Paris, and started to return at 1 o'clock. By this time the guerrillas had collected together in a body, numbering nearly 100 men, who made repeated attempts to capture my rear guard, which they paid dearly for. At one time 1 man was shot from his horse;l at another, 2 were knocked over, and norther, an officer, was dismounted and wounded, and was rescued by his comrades, but his horse and trappings fell into our hands.

The casualties on our side were: Captain Hart, First New Jersey, slightly wounded, and 2 horses killed. The guide you furnished me was of great assistance.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN W. KESTER,

Lieutenant-Colonel, Commanding.