SAN SIMON STATION, July 19, 1862.

LIEUTENANT: You will please to bring to the notice of the general commanding the following;

I have found the Apache Indians hostile, as will appear from my journal remitted this date. In both engagement we killed in all 9 that can be accounted for, but I am certain that we sent more of them to their long home. They attacked Lieutenant-Colonel Eyre's command, as is evidenced by the graves. I suffered, altogether, the loss of 2 privates killed, and 1 private and 1 teamster wounded. I deem it highly important that a force sufficient to hold the water and pass should be stationed there, otherwise every command will have to fight for the water, and, not knowing the ground, are almost certain to lose some lives. I would have remained there had my orders not been positive to proceed to this post. My excuse for not informing the general commanding at an earlier moment is this: I did not deem it safe to send a small party, and to insure the safety and success of the expedition I needed every man I had. I do not deem it safe to send the train with the entire of Captain Cremony's command as an escort, consequetly send twenty infantry in addition; as I have got the train safe here, I am determined to do utmost to have it return safe, which escort will accompany it as far as the San Pedro, and will leave it discretionary with Captain Cremony, when he arrives there, as to whether it will be necessary for him to go farther. I would call the attention of the general commanding to the conduct of my entire command during the march, and in overcoming difficulties attending the same. Every one, both officers and men, did their utmost to assist me, and seemed to have the success of our undertaking as much at heart as myself. For instance, is sjowing their endurance of hunger, fatigue, and thirst without murmuring. The night before leaving Dragoon Spring it rained in torrents. I never in my life experienced a harder rain-storm, which night the men got no sleep. I took all the next day to clean up their arms, digging water holes, and improving the natural water facilities. Starting at 5 p. m, we marched all night and until 12. 30 p. m. the following day on one cup of coffee, a portion of the way through mud and water half knee-deep; had two fights with the Indians; drove them noth times, and after getting another cup of coffee marched that night fifteen miles, and back the next morning without breakfast; not getting a meal until past noon of that day, then giving the Indians another fight for the water, and after getting possession stood guard until night, when relieved by the cavalry; that night putting the teamsters on guard around the camp. The next day skirmished over high mountains through the pass, and when we got through and out into the open country, called in my skirmishers, saying that all that could not walk might step to the front, and I would provide some place for them to ride. Of the entire company only two injustice to others, and can only give each and every one the highest praise. Very few of us had ever been under fire before, but I do not know of a case of flinching, and every one was obedient. The only trouble I had was to keep them from exposing themselves. Had Private Barr been as cautions as he was warned to be, be probably would not have lost his life.

I send the train by a different route in order avoid Apache Pass, of which Captain Cremony has orders to give you a full account. I have had to detain the train oe day longer than I would had it not been for the cavalry horses being so much reduced from want of forage and grass. They had nothing toeat for two days and nights before reaching here, and the grass is not first rate, but passable. I have endeavored to do my best both for animals and men, and hope that my course may meet with the approval of the general commanding. As to making a post at this point, it can be held during wet weather, but not when dry. I will thrown up an intrenchment around the adobe as fast as possible. It will be slow, however, as my force is small, but we are doing our best. There is nothing here in the shape of timber but small mesquite, nor any nearer than the mountains, some fifteen miles distant on either side, and we will have to run big risks the water is not fit for drinking or cooking - much worse than that at the Pimas - but we can make out if it continues to rain, of which there is a fair prospect. I am greatly indebted to Andrew Furlong, a teamster whom I took for a guide, giving one of my men in his place to drive. He is desirous of being employed as guide, and wished me to bring him to the notice of the general commanding, who, if he desires, can question him and satisfy himself as to his knowledge of the road. He represents himself as an employ of the Overland Mail Company. He has given me correct information so far. O know nothing further of him that what I have seen of him on this march.

I am, lieutenant, respectfully, your obedient servant,

THOS. L. ROBERTS,

Captain, First Infantry California Volunteers.

Lieutenant B. C. CUTLER,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General, Tucson.