Numbers 2. Reports of Captain Thomas A. Faries, Pelican (Louisiana) Battery.

IN THE FIELD, NEAR HARRISONBURG, LA.,

March 2, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to report that I took position with the right section of this battery (two 3-inch rifled guns), at daylight this morning, on a large circular Indian mound in an old field about midway between Harrisonburg and Bayou Bushly, which enters the Ouachita River on its right bank about 800 yards below the mound. This mound is 200 yards from the right bank of the river. At 10 a. m. the iron-clad gun-boat Osage of the enemy turned the point at the junction of the Ouachita and Bayou Bushly, followed by four tin-clads, armed stern-wheel river steamers, protected by a covering of boiler iron, pierced for guns below and for musketry where it covered the cabins, which were occupied by Federal infantry. I commenced firing at 10.30 a. m., soon after our infantry on the open river bank below me had opened the fight. Forty-seven time-fused shell and 16 solid shot were fired at the four tin-clads where they had halted just below my position, distance 400 yards. Nearly all of the shot and shell from the two 3-inch rifles took effect in the pilot-houses and upper works of the four tin-clads, all of which lay together in a mass. The damage by my fire was, I believe, considerable, as I could perceive the effect of the greater part of my shot. After exhausting the ammunition in the limber chests, I retired the section by piece until they had reached the cover of the woods to the left and rear. The Indian mound is some 10 feet in height. A curved ditch was cut through the level surface near the river face of the circle, which was occupied from daylight until the action was well opened by the two companies of infantry under Captain ---, who had reported to me at 2 o'clock in the morning.

While in position on the mound the tin-clads did not attempt to pass above. Only the iron-clad Osage passed up, she being so low in the water (the river being very low) no part of her hull was visible from the mound, her funnel alone indicating her movements. The ground being unfavorable for the protection of my caissons and horses, I had them placed in charge of Sergeant-Major Arnauld, some distance in my rear on the Bushly Ferry road, from which position they had to be retired, as most of the projectiles from the enemy's guns passed over my position and exploded at or near the caissons.

The enemy's vessels were armed with 6, 8 and 11-inch guns, 30-pounder Parrott rifles; also 12 and 24 pounder guns, from which were thrown during the day an immense quantity of shot, shell, spherical case, and grape, their explosive projectiles bursting with considerable accuracy toward the latter part of the firing. In a direct fire they were unable to depress their guns sufficiently to do me any damage while occupying the mound. My horses and pieces sustained no injury, the only exception being the animal ridden by myself, which was killed while I was in the act of reporting to General Polignac for orders near the bank of the river above the mound. I have no casualties to report.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

T. A. FARIES,

Captain, Commanding Battery, Second Division Infantry.

Major O. VOORHIES,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Second Brigadier, Louisiana Infty.