HDQRS. CHIEF OF SUB., DEPT. OF THE GULF,
New Orleans, La., June 1, 1864.

Major GEORGE B. DRAKE,

Asst. Adjt. General, Hdqrs. Dept. of the Gulf, New Orleans, La.:

MAJOR: I have the honor to report, in compliance with instructions from department headquarters this date, and the letter of the 31st ultimo from Lieutenant-Colonel Abert, assistant inspector-general, that the organization and distribution of depots and commissaries of subsistence in the Department of the Gulf to-day are as follows: The main depot of subsistence for the department is in this city under the charge of an efficient officer, as is that, also, for the issue of provisions on returns in this city, and the duties of both are well and promptly done. The Nineteenth Army Corps, if not increased at Morganza, La., is well provided with a capable and efficient corps of commissaries of subsistence, well organized, and in good working order. Lieutenant Colonel H. D. Woodruff, commissary of subsistence of volunteers, is its chief, and he has 5 commissaries of subsistence of volunteers as assistants.

With the Thirteenth Corps there are but 2 commissaries of volunteers with the rank of captain. One is without any business experience or capacity whatever; the other is very efficient and capable. The depot at Port Hudson is in charge of a capable officer; that at Baton Rouge is temporarily in charge of a lieutenant detailed to it from the Thirtieth Massachusetts Volunteers. One of the commissaries of subsistence returned from the Red River service will be immediately assigned to it. The depot at Carrollton is in charge of apparently as honest and incapable an officer as ever had charge of important public business. Should a considerable part of the Thirteenth Army Corps be stationed there I hope to have the services of a more competent officer for that depot. At present I have not any officer to replace the present incumbent.

There are commissaries of subsistence of volunteers at Fort Barrancas, at Brazos, and at Brownsville. All other stations, posts, and organizations in the department are subsisted by detailed acting commissaries of subsistence, Additional commissaries of subsistence of volunteers are greatly needed here, but I have so often and so urgently asked for them, without success, that I have at present no expectation that more will be sent. Five are very necessary. The acting commissaries of subsistence at all the stations, posts, and forts in the department are instructed to keep on hand at all times sixty days' rations for the number of troops to be supplied from their respective store-houses. These orders are usually well obeyed, and Forts Livingston, Jackson, Saint Philip, Macomb, Pike, and Ship Island may safely reported at that to-day, and also, the same at Donaldsonville and Plaquemine; at Brashear City and Bonnet Carre, probably thirty days. By data and last reports received from the commissaries, there were on the Rio Grande, on the 1st of June, in round numbers, of salt meats, 560,000; of breadstuffs, 360,000 rations, and of the other parts of the ration, 600,000, each. The number of persons fed on the Rio Grande, the commissary of subsistence reports at 6,500. The post of Arkansas Pass is provisioned to the 31st of August; that of Pass Cavallo is being vacated.

The forts, &c., at Key West and Tortugas are supplied directly from New York. All other places and the armies in the department are supplied from the main depot in this city, which draws its stores from the market here, but in a small way, receiving them mainly from Saint Louis, New York, and Boston, as either presents the cheaper market for the articles required. In the depots in this city there are to-day, of salt meats, 5,000,000; of fresh beef, 66,000; breadstuffs, 2,300,000 rations, and of the other parts of the ration, 4,000,000. At Baton Rouge, where the commissary of subsistence reports that he feeds 9,500 persons daily, there are of meats, 402,000; breadstuffs, 430,000; rice and hominy, 530,000 rations, and of the balance of the ration, 500,000 parts each; and at Port Hudson there are of meats, 530,000; breadstuffs, 450,000; sugar, 400,000 rations; and 500,000 of each of the other component parts of the ration.

The troops at Morganza have fifteen days' supply. The troops in Texas have supplied themselves with fresh beef, and recently the army upon Red River has done the same. All other forces in the department, except those of Key West, which are supplied from New York, receive fresh beef only when brought from Saint Louis. The country immediately about the stations and forts in completely stripped of all beef-cattle, and no successful efforts are made to forage for them. The consequence is, the supply received is limited, and there are constant calls for more fresh beef than can be transported from Saint Louis, which is less than is required, probably, for the health of the troops. There are no reports of the number of contrabands and destitute fed in the department, but it is enormous. In this city the families, so far, number about 5,000. The number of rations consumed daily in the Department of the Gulf will probably exceed 75,000.

The supply in the four depots, New Orleans, Carrollton, Baton Rouge, and Port Hudson, is sufficient for eighty-five days, which, with, say, even forty days' supply at all the small posts, would give ample time against any probable contingency, as the destruction of one of the depots, or the closing of the navigation of the river, for supplies to be received from New York or elsewhere. This market is largely supplied at this time with flour.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

E. G. BECKWITH,

Colonel, A. D. C., and Chief Com. of Sub., Dept. of the Gulf.