FEBRUARY 7, 1864.-Skirmish at Vidalia, La.

Report of Lieutenant Colonel Hubert A. McCaleb, Second Mississippi Heavy Artillery, African Descent.

HDQRS. 2nd MISSISSIPPI ARTILLERY AFRICAN DESCENT,
Natchez, Miss., February 9, 1864.

LIEUTENANT: I most respectfully submit the following as a correct account of the action of my command, in pursuance to your order of the 7th instant, which was received by me at 2.30 p. m.of same date:

You will get your command in readiness and cross the river by the first boat to Vidalia, La., and report to Colonel Farrar, who is being pressed by overwhelming numbers of the enemy.

Upon received the order, I at once formed a line of every able bodied man in camp, and leaving instructions with the senior convalescent officer to detail a camp guard from the convalescents, I started on double-quick to the landing with seven companies, numbering in all 432 men. To account clearly for the remainder of my command I will call your attention to orders issued by you some time since, detaching one company (A), under command of Captain james T. Organ, as mounted scouts for the post of Vidalia, and one battalion (Third) of our companies, under Major George D. Reynolds, to take charge of the siege guns in the fortifications surrounding Camp McPherson. This latter battalion being not armed with small-arms, I deemed it prudent to let them remain at Camp McPherson, although ot officers and men begged eagerly for permission to accompany me.

On arriving at the landing I was met by Colonel Kent, who ordered me to embark with my command on the steamer Diligent as quickly as possible, which was done at the double-quick, and at the tap of the bell the lines were unfastened and we were sailing to help our comrades at Vidalia. At the landing on the Louisiana shore there was an orderly with orders from Colonel Farrar to form my line of battle in front of the levee and await further orders; this was soon done, and soon an order came from Colonel Farrar to move out on the Trinity road 150 yards and form a new line, with one battalion of three companies on the right, under command of Major Charles W. Smith, the other of four companies on the left of the road, commanded by myself, to support the section of artillery planted directly in the road, with an interval between of sufficient space to work the artillery.

This being done, I received orders to detach 30 men to occupy and defend the jail building. This I obeyed. About this time heavy skirmishing began on our front, and soon the rebel flag was seen advancing toward our left, from the skirt of woods across the level plain, and next their main column came plainly in sight. Judging from the length of their line and number of flags, there were in this column tow regiments, numbering from 1,200 to 1,500 men in all, marching in line of battle, one regiment a few rods in rear of the other, and distant from us about one-half miles. At this time I was ordered to move my battalion to a high piece of ground to my left oblique, about 300 yards, and join Captain organ, who had command of his own and one company of the Seventh Louisiana, my left to rest near his right; the whole command faced to the left from my first position. By the time I had reached this point the enemy's skirmishers had advanced near enough to become very annoying, and although my men had never before been under fire they came up promptly on the double-quick and formed a line, under a heavy skirmish fire, with as much coolness as could veterans of many battles. This checked the advance of their skirmishes, who were now from 75 to 100 paces in front of our line.

On their main body came in spending style, carrying their arms at a support, presenting a most formidable front, until within about 150 or 200 yards distant, when I received orders from Colonel Farrar to open fire, which I immediately gave to the men, and they executed it by giving one splendid volley, well aimed. This caused the enemy to falter and lie down. I immediately ordered the men to load, which they did with great coolness, and with one more well-aimed volley the rebel ranks were broken, and their men, panic-stricken, ran away in great confusion. I ordered my men to load and fire by file at the fleeing mob, and with difficulty prevented them from breaking ranks to follow mob, and with difficulty prevented them from breaking ranks to follow the enemy, their anxiety being great to do so. I received no orders to advance. I held my position until a late hour at night, when I received orders to fall back to the levee.

Thus a force of 300 colored soldiers put to flight, in great confusion, four or five times their number of the chivalrous enemy, with a loss to them of 1 killed, 5 wounded (some mortally), and a number of prisoners. Not a man of my command was hurt. The line officers and men did their whole duty. Captain James T. Organ, commanding two companies, maneuvered them with skill and behaved with gallantry.

Major Charles W. Smith, commanding battalion in reserve, informs me that he and the line officers of his command were obliged to place themselves before their men with drawn swords, and threaten summary punishment to the first man who would attempt to quit the ranks to join their comrades fighting in the front, their eagerness to be engaged being almost irrepressible.

to Surgeons Ferris, Peal, and Mitchell are due the thanks of the offices and men of the regiment for their thoughtfulness in following with the means to make the men comfortable.

Hoping the action of my command will meet your approval, I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant,

H. A. McCALEB,

Lieutenant Colonel, Commanding Second Mississippi Artillery.

Lieutenant BOZMAN,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Camp McPherson.