SANTA FE, N. MEX., October 21, 1862.

Colonel WEST,

Commanding District of Arizona, Mesilla:

MY DEAR COLONEL: I inclose herewith for your perusal a note from Mr. Beard. I should judge from this that he has plenty of cattle on the road, and so, if his agent can get along until a herd arrives from Tucson, by your arrangement in loaning him some of the Government cattle you will have no embarrassment. If you can figure it out so that justice can be done to all concerned without sending Coleman to Tucson I beg you to do so; otherwise send him. I had White's Mill repaired, and let him have a bolt, belt, and pledged my credit for some lumber for the making of a bolting chest, and agreed to loan some mules to help drive the mill until Lennan and himself could get a start, and to take pay for all this in the service of the mill in grinding for the Government. This I believe to be substantially my understanding of all the bargain made with Lennan. Under no circumstances is the garrison at Fort Bowie to be withdrawn. You can, by your own order, if you so desire it, attach that post to the District of Western Arizona; and please to give such oders in relation to the clamors of the released gamblers as will be ust to them and to the Government; and, if they still continue to give trouble after that, you will give orders "needful to the service. " That part of Arizona is under martial law. Continue to get up supplies of subsistence stores from Fort Yuma. Obtain information of Somers' train, which went for clothing. Ascertain where the clothing is and when you may be expected by me to receive it. Try and get an account of the stores on hand at Fort Yuma. See if Colonel Bowie will not send another company at once to Tucson to help Coult out, in view of the influx of people to Fresnal. Write to Colonel Drum, assistant adjutant-general, on this latter point. I think Colonel Bowie's whole regiment will be ordered on to the Rio Grande.

In haste, very truly, yours,

JAMES H. CARLETON,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.