HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH,
Hilton Head, S. C., June 6, 1864.

Brigadier-General BIRNEY,

Commanding District of Florida.

GENERAL: Having been assigned to command the District of Florida, I send you, by command of Major-General Foster, the following general instructions, which you will have carried out:

First, with regard to be general disposition of your forces. This will be made with a view to concentration and mutual support. River as possible. You will hold a place at Jacksonville, west of the Saint John's River, as a base of operations in that direction, and also Fort Clinch, which commands the entrance to Saint Mary's Sound. The main body will be stationed at Jacksonville, or within striking distance of that point. One regiment of white troops will be stationed at Saint Augustine. One regiment of mounted troops will be stationed on picket and scouting duty at the junction of the roads leading from Picolata and Saint Augustine southward and operate from that point in any direction you may order, holding that point as a place to be covered. A force will be stationed at Yellow Bluff, with a small detachment on Saint John's Bluff. A permanent picket will be maintained at the railroad bridges leading from Amelia Island. A small permanent picket in Fernandina and mounted men to watch the shore of the island and the crossing from the mainland. All other pickets to be movable, and will not be suffered to locate themselves in any one place long enough to hazard their capture.

The regiment of Florida volunteer, an order for raising of which has been ordered from these headquarters, will, it is hope, furnish sufficient numbers for ordinary scouting and outpost duty. This regiment may be mounted if judged necessary by you, provided the men can furnish their own horses at Government prices. A detachment of Massachusetts cavalry will be sent down and will be remounted on horses previously turned over by them to the Seventy-fifth Ohio Regiment Volunteers. A portion of this regiment (the Seventy-fifth Ohio Volunteers) which you are able to mount may be retained as mounted infantry.

The One hundred and fifty-seventh New York Volunteers will be relieved from duty on Amelia Island and ordered to Beaufort. The regiment to relieve them, which you will order to take their place from Jacksonville, will take post at Fort Clinch. The one hundred and forty-fourth Regiment new York Volunteers will also be relieved from duty in your district. Orders for them will be sent you in a few days.

The duties expected from you with your command is to act on the defensive inhabitants, and annoying the enemy as much as possible by occasional, scouting and raiding parties. It must, however, be understood that you are to abstain from destroying the property of Union citizens; and, when considered practicable, you will communicate to these headquarters all intended movements. You will not allow any accumulation of commissary or quartermaster's stores at other points than Fort Clinch, Jacksonville, and Saint Augustine.

I have the honor to be, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J. F. ANDERSON,

Major and Aide-de-Camp.