HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE MISSOURI,
JUDGE-ADVOCATE'S OFFICE,

Saint Louis, June 3, 1864.

Memorandum concerning negroes claimed as slaves by James I. Hickman, Boone County.

FACTS.

Letter of General Clinton B. Fisk, commanding District of North Missouri, to General Rosecrans, May 31, 1864.*

Henry and Henderson Bryant, slaves of Hickman, left their owner February, 1863, and sought refuge within our lines at Jefferson City. The provost-marshal gave them certificates of freedom under General Orders, No. 35, Department of the Missouri, 1863. They were employed in the quartermaster's department. Afterward went to work for one Buffington, till March, 1864. In March, 1864, they enlisted in the U. S. Army. Hickman brings action in Boone circuit court against Buffington, for $676 services and $600 value. Grand jury also indicted Buffington for unlawfully dealing with slaves. General Fisk stays proceedings.

LAW.

Congress by act of July 17, 1862, chapter 195, section 9, declares "free of servitude" and not to be again "held as slaves," all slaves of persons * * * hereafter * * * in any way giving aid and comfort " to the rebellion" escaping from much persons and taking refuge within the lines of the Army."

July 17, 1862, chapter 201, paragraph 12, Congress authorizes the President to receive "into the service of the United States, for the purpose of constructing entrenchments or performing camp service or any other labor * * * for which they may be competent," persons of African descent.

July 17, 1862, chapter 201, paragraph 12, Congress declares any slave rendering service as provided for in the act-that is, in the militia service of the United States-free, and his family also.

ORDERS.

War Department, General Orders, No. 139, September 24, 1862, the President enjoined upon all persons in the military and naval service to obey, observe, and enforce within their respective spheres or action the section 9 of July 17, 1862, chapter 195.

General Orders, Department of the Missouri, December, 24, 1862, No. 35, provost-marshals were ordered to give certificates of freedom to all slaves escaping from disloyal masters.

General Orders, No. 135, paragraphs II, V, VII, 1863, November 14, enlistment of colored troops ordered by the general commanding department. All able-bodied men, free or slave, to be received. Slaves declared free on enlisting, and masters to receive a certificate from an established boat. Loyal owners to be paid.

N. B.-The indictment against Buffington is for "dealing with slaves." Revised Statutes, chapter 150, p.33, and the courts (19th Missouri, 225, State vs. Henke) have decided that hiring labor does not come within that provision of the statute.

Therefore, it appears that, by the laws of the land and general orders of the Department, the slaves of Hickman became free on entering our lines, accepting service, and afterward enrolling in the service, provided that Hickman was disloyal and had aided and abetted in any manner the rebellion. In regard to this last point the provost-marshal satisfied himself before he acted, doubtless, and General Fisk states, "Hickman was and is a secessionist, beyond a doubt." The whole act of Hickman is undoubtedly intended to oppose the Government and the department and the emancipation of slaves. If General Fisk is authorized to check such proceedings now, it may save much trouble and annoyance in the future.

JAMES F. DWIGHT,

Major and Acting Judge-Advocate.