General S. COOPER,

Adjutant and Inspector General.

Numbers 25. Report of Henry C. Cabell, C. S. Artillery, commanding Artillery Battalion.

FEBRUARY 8, 1864.

GENERAL: Saturday morning between 10 and 11 o'clock a large force of the enemy drove in our pickets at Morton's Ford. The First Company of Richmond Howitzers, in charge of First Lieutenant R. M. Anderson, was in position at the breast-works on the right of the main road leading to the ford. These works are a mile or more from the ford and afford no command of it, the view being cut off by the irregularities of the ground and by the cluster of houses at Dr. Morton's residence, which entirely conceal the road from that point to the ford. The morning was foggy and cloudy. The first intimation Lieutenant Anderson had of the crossing of the enemy was from an officer who requested him to fire the signal gun.

At that time the Yankees skirmishers had advanced as far as Dr. Morton's residence, about 800 yards distant. They were at first thought to be our pickets falling back. About the same time several yankee batteries advanced in the plain on the opposite side of the river and took position so as to cover our front and the advance of their infantry. After firing the signal gun Lieutenant Anderson opened upon these batteries. Ascertaining that the skirmishers in front were our enemies, he opened fire with great spirit upon them. This served to halt their advance and was the means of securing the position. Fortunately that morning Steuart's brigade was relieving two regiments of Ramseur's and two regiments of Doles' brigade. This gave double the usual force. These troops hurried forward to the works and arrived very promptly, considering the distance from their camps. There was, however, a considerable time that the battery was without support. I ordered up Captain Carlton's battery. It came up almost simultaneously with he infantry and was put in position on the right of the howitzers. The firing of these two batteries served to prevent any farther advance of the enemy at that time. I had sent Lieutenant Powell to give information to Lieutenant-General Ewell, and he arrived very promptly. The further dispositions of the artillery were made after his arrival. One of the guns of the howitzer battery as shifted to a position on the left of the road. This gun (a Napoleon) was in charge of Lieutenant John Nimmo. This was being done when Lieutenant-General Ewell arrived. I afterward ordered up from Raccoon Ford a rifled gun from Captain Manly's battery. Lieutenant Payne brought the gun promptly forward. it was put in position on the left immediately over the river, so as to command the enemy's batteries expected to advance on the opposite side of the river. Its position also commanded in part the approach from Morton's Ford.

Later in the day I ordered up from Somerville Ford a Parrott gun of Fraser's battery. These two last guns were designed to bear upon the enemy's guns, which it was thought would be advanced in case a determined occupation was intended by the enemy. This gun was promptly brought forward by Lieutenant Falligant and placed in position in the works immediately below Raccoon Ford.

I cannot speak in terms too high of the gallantry, promptness, and constancy displayed by the First Company of Richmond Howitzers. Without support, they drove back the enemy and held them in check until the arrival of infantry support. The prompt arrival fo Captain Carlton's battery enabled that battery also to participate in part in the credit due to checking the advance of the enemy, and thus securing our possession of this line. During the various advances of the enemy and the subsequent successful advance of our skirmishers, these guns at Morton's Ford were served with great success and efficiency, contributing in no inconsiderable degree to secure the final repulse of the Yankee force and their withdrawal that night.

I have no doubt that a serious attack was designed by our enemy. It is generally thought that over 4,000 troops came across the river. Their reliance seemed to have been in finding us unprepared. Lieutenant-General Ewell brought up his whole corps to resist it.

The howitzer battery fired 104 rounds; Captain Carlton's battery fired 58 rounds; Captain Manly's battery fired 1 round; total fired at Morton's Ford, 163 rounds.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

H. C. CABELL,

Colonel, Commanding.