Captain R. S. SEABURY,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 19. Report of Colonel James M. Bull, One hundred and twenty-sixth New York Infantry.

HEADQUARTERS 126TH NEW YORK VOLUNTEERS,
February 9, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to report that my regiment left camp Saturday morning, the 6th instant, at 7 a. m., and formed in rear of the brigade, and proceeded on the Morton's Ford road to a point about a mile this side of the Rapidan, where the brigade halted and formed in column by battalion under cover of a piece of woods. At this point 100 men were detailed as skirmishers, comprising men of eight companies with their officers, viz, Companies A, B, E, F, H., I, and K. This detail, under command of Lieutenant Colonel William H. Baird, with the others from the brigade, marched to and crossed the Rapidan at Morton's Ford and took part in capturing about 30 rebel prisoners at or near the ford. Immediately after fording the river the skirmishers were deployed as such, and advanced and were very soon warmly engaged with those of the enemy. They continued on duty until relieved about 7 o'clock in the evening, and recrossed the river under orders about midnight.

I accompanied the detail of skirmishers across the river, where, as soon as the residue of the regiment, marching in column, reached me, I placed it, by order of General Owen, on the left of the brigade, in a road running nearly at right angles with the river. There we remained until about 6 p. m., when we moved out of the road, deployed, and strengthened the skirmish line on the left, where we remained until about 12 o'clock, when we were withdrawn and recrossed the river, joining the portion of the regiment under command of Lieutenant-Colonel Baird. Soon after we bivouacked in the woods about a mile from the river. We remained in this locality until nearly dark, when we took up our line of march, arriving in camp before 9 p. m.

It affords me great pleasure to say that the officers and men of my command, both on the march and on the field, behaved in a manner satisfactory to me and creditable to themselves.

The casualties are as follows: One killed, 19 wounded (1 of whom has since died), and 2 wounded and missing.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JAMES M. BULL,

Colonel, Commanding Regiment.