Lieutenant Colonel F. A. WALKER,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 11. Report of Colonel Samuel S. Carroll, Eighth Ohio Infantry, commanding First Brigade.

HDQRS. FIRST Brigadier, THIRD DIV., SECOND CORPS,
February 9, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to make the following report of the part taken by the brigade which I have the honor to command in the late movement across the Rapidan:

About 12. 30 p. m. on the 6th instant I received orders from General Hays, commanding division, to cross the Rapidan at Morton's Ford and support General Owen's brigade; accordingly, crossed the river, wading waist deep, and marched toward the Third Brigade. As the head of each regimental column appeared on the hill the enemy opened upon it with artillery, but with no effect. By General Owen's direction I massed the brigade behind a hill on the right of the Third Brigade. We remained in this position until after 5 p. m., when the enemy commenced shelling our position, their missiles, however, going over us. At the same time they advanced a line of skirmishers and threw down a column as if to get around our right flank and obtain possession of the road. So soon as I discovered this movement I moved my command by the right flank to check it. While moving we were exposed to quite a severe fire of artillery and infantry, doing us some damage. Immediately I got into position to prevent their turning our flank. I moved about 50 yards to the rear, so as to cover the men from fire, and threw out skirmishers, who engaged the enemy. The firing was continued until some time after dark, when it entirely ceased. We remained in this position until 10. 30 p. m., when I received orders from General hays to cross the river, leaving my skirmishers out. I did so, and bivouacked in the woods to the right of the house occupied as corps headquarters. Shortly afterward the skirmishers crossed over. We remained in this position until about sunset ont he 7th, when we received orders to march back to camp, which we did, arriving there about 8 p. m.

I brought off all my killed and wounded to the hospital, established on this side, before we recrossed the river. The officers and men of my command behaved in their usual coal and gallant manner. I am indebted to the members of my staff for their assistance in the field. Captains Butterfield and Gregg, Eighth Ohio Volunteers, had charge of the skirmish line and managed it well.

I append herewith a list of casualties, and inclose the reports of the regimental commanders:

Commissioned Enlisted men.

officers.

Command. 	 Killed.	 Wounded	 Killed.	 Wounded	 Aggreg

 	 . 	 	 . 	 ate.



4th Ohio	 . . . 	 . . . 	 . . . 	 17	 17

Volunteers.



8th Ohio	 . . . 	 2	 . . . 	 . . . 	 2

Volunteers.



Battalion 7th West	 . . . 	 1	 . . . 	 10	 11

Virginia

Volunteers.



14th Indiana	 . . . 	 2	 2	 11	 15

Volunteers.



Total. 	 . . . 	 5	 2	 38	 45

Sir, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. S. CARROLL,

Colonel, Commanding Brigade.