HDQRS. DEPT. OF THE SOUTH, OFFICE CHIEF OF ARTY.,
Hilton Head, S. C., May 29, 1864.

Captain W. L. M. BURGER,

Assistant Adjutant-General:

SIR: In accordance with instructions of yesterday from department headquarters, I have the honor to submit the following report of the condition of my department and the requirements necessary to make the same effective.

The effective light artillery within the department consists of three batteries, stationed, equipped, and armed as follows:

Regiment and	 Station.	 Men.	 3-inch	 12-

company.	 	 	 rifles.	 pounder

 	 	 	 Wiard

 	 	 	 rifles.



3rd Rhode Island	 Jacksonville	 130	 2	 ...

Artillery, Company

A.



3rd New York	 Northern	 140	 ...	 ...

Artillery, Company	 District

B.



3rd New York	 Beaufort	 140	 ...	 4

Artillery, Company

F.



Total.....	 .........	 410	 2	 4

Regiment and	 Station.	 12-	 12-	 Total.

company.	 	 pounder	 pounder

 	 light	 howitzers

 	 guns	 (bronze).

 	 (bronze)

 	 .



3rd Rhode Island	 Jacksonville	 ...	 4	 6

Artillery, Company

A.



3rd New York	 Northern	 4	 ...	 4

Artillery, Company	 District

B.



3rd New York	 Beaufort	 ...	 ...	 4

Artillery, Company

F.



Total.....	 ......	 4	 4	 16

Batteries B and F. Third New York Artillery, have sufficient men for six pieces, to which number it is intended to increase them when horses can be obtained. Company G, Second U. S. Colored Artillery, is recruiting at Hilton Head and numbers upwards of 110 men. It is intended to arm this battery with six 12-pounder howitzers. In the manner above mentioned it is intended to increase the light artillery within the department to twenty-four pieces, which will allow a six-gun battery for each district. Required to horse the different batteries, each increased to six pieces, 250 horses suitable for artillery purposes. The remaining necessary material can be obtained from the ordnance department when required.

The heavy artillery forces within the department consist of ten companies of the Third Rhode Island Artillery, with an aggregate strength of 800 men. Five companies are stationed on Morris Island, in charge of the important forts and batteries, assisted by sufficient details from the infantry to serve the offensive guns constantly when required, and the defensive ones in case of an attack.

The mortar batteries on morris Island are necessarily without full reliefs on account of the small force on the island. The batteries on Folly Island, which are purely defensive, are served by details from the infantry, instructed by non-commissioned officers from the artillery.

Thirty shells are thrown into Charleston daily from the Morris Island batteries, directed at different portions of the city, and a slow mortar fire at different times opened on Sumter, with a view to prevent the mounting of mortars on the terre-plein. The armament of the different works in the Northern District are in good condition, and those on Morris Island ready at a moment's notice for offensive or defensive operations. Weekly reports of all firing, changes in garrisons, bursting of guns, with full history of same, together with accounts of the firing of the rebels, are required from the chief of artillery of this district.

The different forts and batteries at Beaufort are in charge of companies of the Twenty-sixth U. S. Colored Troops, under the instruction of non-commissioned officers from the artillery. The armaments of these works are well cared for and ready for defensive purposes.

Four companies of heavy artillery are stationed at Fort Pulaski and one at Hilton Head; the latter company is now instructing the First Michigan Colored Volunteers in artillery with a view to have them severe such works in Hilton Head District which cannot be manned by the artillery.

The armaments of the works in this district are well taken care of. The details to serve as artillery from the infantry have not such opportunities for drill as I desire on account of heavy fatigue work now going on. Detachments from the artillery at Pulaski are serving on the armed transports May Flower, Thomas Foulkes, Plato, and Croton.

Fort Clinch, at Fernandina, is garrisoned by companies of the One hundred and fifty-seventh New York; the forts at saint Augustine by detachments from the Seventeenth Connecticut Volunteers; the different batteries at Jacksonville by details from the Third U. S. Colored Troops.

The departure of the Tenth Army Corps left us with infantry garrisons, many of which were wholly ignorant of their duties as artillerists; non-commissioned officers and privates from the artillery have, however, been distributed as instructors, so that the different garrisons, are in fair condition as regards drill. Copies of General Orders, Numbers 88, from War Department, relative to the care of field-works and their armaments, have been distributed to the different officers in charge of forts and batteries and provisions of the order required to be observed. The small number of artillerists now in the department renders it necessary that every available man should be on duty with his special arm, and as many are detailed as clerks, orderlies, teamsters, boatman, bakers, and attendants men from the light and heavy artillery be ordered to join their companies, and that no details from any purpose, other than in the line of their duty, be made from the artillery.

Respectfully submitted.

C. R. BRAYTON,

Colonel Third R. 1. Arty, Chief of Arty., Dept. of the South.