Tucson, September 22, 1862.

Lieutenant Colonel R. C. DRUM,

Assistant Adjutant-General, San Francisco, Cal.:

COLONEL: An express arrived here this morning with the mail from the west, three days before the usual time. I judge there must be some important communication for General Carleton, and therefore dispatch an express this evening with the mail for the Column from California as far as Fort Bowie, hoping by the time it reaches there that the detachmetn sent to the Rio Grande on the 9th instant may have returned with new of the column. The detachment left Fort Bowie on the morning of the 14th instant, and Major Could expected them to return about the 25th instant. Not a word has been heard directly or indirectly from General Carleton or any of his command since the 4th of last August. I have received no communications in regard to this extra express that arrived this morning from any quarter. I understand from unofficial sources that I have been ordered to proceed to Libertad, but I never heard of it officially from any source. I have to report that I have, by direction of General Carleton, called upon the acting assistant quartermaster and acting commissary of subsistence at Fort Yuma to send me tri-monthly reports of quartermaster's and commissary stores on hand at, en route to and from, Fort Yuma, for the troops in this Territory. This was done four times, and twice through the commanding officer. The only attention paid to the request was one statement of subsistence sent on the 22nd of August by Lieutenant E. B. Frink, Fifth Infantry, acting assistant quartermaster and acting commissary of subsistence. Those reports are necessary for my information, for the information of the commanding general who directed me to call for them, and to keep him supplied with them. It is for the commanding general to decide if discipline is to cease, and if officers are to do as they please and let the public interests suffer.

Very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,

D. FERGUSSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding.