EXECUTIVE OFFICE,

Olympia, Wash. Ter., October 18, 1862.

General B. ALVORD,

Fort Vancouver, Wash. Ter.:

DEAR SIR: Judge Hewitt and family arrived at this place yesterday safely and in good health from the States by the overland route of the South Pass, and from him I learn that he had the satisfaction of seeing you as he came through Vancouver, when he explained to you at full length all that he had previously heard about the truly horrible murders and roberries committed by the Snake (and perhaps by other) Indians, and it si generally believed that villainous white men have been mixed up with those atrocious savages, completing the gangs of white and Indian land pirates, thieves, and murderers. This is a said and bloody PAGEin the history of our overland emigration to the gold diggings of Oregon and of this Territory. This black picture of the past season's emigration points out the positive and determined necessity of such suitable provision being made for the protection of the next year's emigration as shall completely put it out of the power of any black hearted redskin or whiteskin devils in human shpae from injuring or jeopardizing either the life or limb or property of any one man, woman, or child who may desire to travel across any part of the soil of the United States between the Missouri and the Columbia Rivers. For the numerous robberies and murders that have been committed upon overland travelers during every season for many years past, and with continuous impunity, for I have never heard of any of the vile criminals being justly punished, so that the escape from worse punsihment of all the vast numbers of those cruel murderers and robbers seems to have operated as a license and as an encouragement for murderers and thieves to select the overland travel road as their field of operations, their harvest field of plunder, of robbery, and of murder. And I now pledge you my troth that I will do everything in my power to assist to do full justice andemnity, and inflict just and righteous punishment and satisfaction for the past crimes of those marauding guerrillas, whether red or white, and to insure peaceful security for all travelers over our roads for the future. And I am very confident that you will cheerfully do all in your power to carry into full effect whatever plan may be finally agreed upon and adopted, by which to insure the success of such highly desirable and necessary action. And whatever plan may be decided on, we shall have to rely and depend upon your well-known zeal and energy in the cause of right, truth, and justice to carry such highly benevolent and holy purposes into successful execution.

Judge Hewitt also informs me that quite a large number of hardy, enterprising miners and settlers are going to remain during the coming winter at their mining claims, and they are all scattered widely about in companies and squads at long distances apart from each other, and scatteringly spread over a widely extended mining region of country; and in his opinion those miners and settlers will stand in as much need of military protection to save them from Indian depredations during the coming winter as the overland emigrants have needed military protection during their journey through this Territory during this past season's travel.

And now, my dear sir, the first question to be rightfully asked and rightfully answered, which is deeply impressed upon my mind as an imperative duty, is this: How can all these vast numbers of miners and setlers be perfectly protected n their lives an property during this coming winter and spring? For the proper solution of this all-important question, involving nothing less than the saving or the losing of a large number of lives af our fellow-beings, who are our fellow-countrymen and citizens, I shall have to seek aid and counsel of your more enlarged experience in protecting our brethren of the white race from the savage murders of the degraded and untutored Indians, who now feel themselves aggrieved by the intrusion of our miners and settlers upon their lands, which by solemn treaty regulations the United States Government adn people solemnly bound themselves to protect the Indians in thei rquiet and peaceable possession both to themselves and to their heirs and descendants forever. I repeat that I must look to you for advice and information about the best and most efficient plan for securely sabving the lives of each and every persons, of each and every company, of all this large number of our American citizens at this time sperad over a large extend to mining country. For such advice and for all advice your generous good-will may prompt you to give me I beg leave to assure you I shall be very thankful to receive, and I close with requesting you to consider that for the present, and for the coming winter, the lives and safety of every person within the limits of this Territory are placed by the law of our land as completely under your kind care and mine as are the lives of the inhabitants of Washington City now placed under the kind care of President Lincoln and the commander of the U. S. army of Virginia, Major General Goerge McClellan, for to nobody else but to you and myself to whom the power of protecting the inhabitants of this Territory has been intrusted. President Lincoln on one part of General Wright on the other have confidingly given to us this sacred trust and power.

Very respectfully and very truly, yours, &c.,

WILLIAM PICKERING,

Governor of Washington Territory.