[Inclosure Numbers 1. -Translation.] WASHINGTON, May 16, 1862.

M. ROMERO,

Charge d'Affaires of the Mexican Republic at Washington:

Representing the interest of the Territory of Arizona, and being well acquainted with the affairs of Sonora and with the localitiesx subject to the attacks of the Indians who devastate the country, I think it my duty for humanity's sake to make a representation to you which, in myjudgment, is of the greatest importance for the inahbitants of Arizona and those to Sonora who inhabit the shores of the Gulf of California and the Colorado River, and therefore I consider it worthy of the attention of both Mexico and the United States. First. It is the duty of the United States as a friendly nation to prevent the inroads of the savages within the limits of the United States into the territory of Mexico, and thus to put a stop to the ravages too often committed there. Second. That although such are the intentions of the Government of the United States, the position of Arizona and its actual state of affairs, as you may see by the map inclosed, entirely overrule the good intentions and frustrate the efforts of this Government, particularly in the western part of Arizona, which is mostly a desert as far as Fort Yuma, on the Colorado. Third. That in consequence of 300 miles of desert, a gap is left open for the inroads of the Indians, while the troops of the United States vainly occupy the eastern frontier. Fourth. As I said before, the country between Tucson and Fort Yuma is a deserted and uninhabited country, but this is not an inconvenience to the savages, who find in the very difficulties created bythe desert an asylum from the attacks of the troops, who find it impossible to overcome the obstacles in their way. Fifth. That in virtue of the above reasons, it is indispensable to establish a fort in the neighborhood of Sori, which is twenty-five or thirty miles within the boundaries of Mexico, with a force not above 100 men to stop the incursions of the Indians and to pursue themw ithin said territory of Mexico. Sixth. That such military post as the above, for the above, for the reasons exposed, cannot be established within the limits of the United States on account of the want of the necessities of life for men and animals, of water, pasture, and vegetation. Seventh. That within the Mexican territory the resources are more easily found to establish such a post for the safety of the life and the interest of the inhabitants of this region. Eight. That in exchange for the benefits of the proposed protection of the inhabitants of Sonora, the United States would aks of them the following: (1) The right of exportation and importation of all kinds of produce intended for the consumption of Arizona through the port of Lobos, in the State of Sonora, in the Gulf of California, free of duties. (2) To establish at the said place warehouses to deposit the productions and merchandise in transit to and fro. (3) The right to protect the said interests in transit and in the port from any danger whatever by a force not exceeding 100 men, who will be posted when not in service at the port of Lobos. (4) That the duty of this force be exclusively to protect the interest of the United States and its citizens in the port of Lobos and on the road to Arizona. (5) That the said force, as well in the post of Sori as at the port of Lobos, shall not interfere in any political dispute whatever that may occur in the State of Sonora, and their only occupation shall be the punishment of the Indians, to which end they shall act in concert with the authorities of the country. I hope, sir, you may find the above expositions worthy of your attention, and that you will take into consideration the interest of Sonora and recommend to your Government to concede our demands. The interest I take in this affair, I can assure you, is a pure desire to secure to the frontier States peace and prosperity and to exterminate the savages who annoy so much in particular the States of Sonora, Chihuahua, Durango, and the Territory of Arizona.

I am, yours,

A. AINSA.