Captain E. B. PARSONS,

Acting Assistant Adjutant-General.

HEADQUARTERS THIRD DIVISION, CAVALRY CORPS, Thursday, March 3, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to submit the following report of the operations of my command during the late expedition into Albemarle:

I left Pony Mountain with my command at 2 p. m. Sunday, the 28th ultimo, and marched to the vicinity of Madison Court-House, where I arrived about 6 p. m., and bivouacked until 2 a. m. the following day, at which hour I marched on the road leading to Stanardsville. A small picket of the enemy was driven in a few miles north of Banks' Ford on the Rapidan. Nothing further was seen of the enemy until we arrived at Stanardsville, where a mounted force of about 20 men was encountered. After the exchange of a few shots they fled in the direction of Orange Court-House. From Stanardsville I took the road leading to Charlottesville. From prisoners picked up along the route I learned that Fitzhugh Lee's division of cavalry was encamped in the vicinity of Charlottesville, having been sent there to obtain forage and recruit his command. The pickets of the enemy were met about 6 miles from Charlottesville, and, when forced to retire, fell back in the direction of that place. We succeeded in driving the enemy before us until we reached a point about 2 miles beyond the Rivanna River, and within 3 miles fo Charlottesville. Here I discovered a superior force of the enemy's cavalry, supported by four batteries of artillery, in position, and a very heavy force of infantry (which I have since learned was Early's division). To satisfy myself concerning the enemy's strength and position I ordered Captain Ash, of the Fifth U. S. Cavalry, with two squadrons of his regiment, to charge the enemy's right flank. Captain Ash drove the enemy back very gallantly, and succeeded in capturing 6 caissons filled with ammunition, 2 forges and harness complete, besides destroying the camp of the enemy. Learning the vast superiority of the numbers of the enemy, compared with my own, and the strength of his position, I determined to withdraw my command, which I did deliberately and in good order. After recrossing the Rivanna I burned the bridge over that stream; I also burned a large flour mill at that point, as well as two other mills at different points on my route. I retired on the road leading to Stanardsville. When 16 miles from Charlottesville I fed my command and bivouacked until daylight. Through a misunderstanding, 500 men of my command, under Colonel Stedman, Sixth Ohio Cavalry, marched all night and recrossed the Rapidan before daylight, thus reducing my command to 1,000 cavalry and one section of artillery.

At daylight on the morning of the 1st I resumed my march on the road to Stanardsville, at which point a small picket of the enemy was posted. Here I destroyed a quantity of Government stores, consisting of bags, caps, saddles, leather, muskets, flour, and whisky. Taking the road from Stanardsville to Madison, I continued my march without interruption from the enemy until a point was reached at which the road branched in two directions, one branch leading to Burton's Ford on the Rapidan, the other to Banks' Ford. Here a brigade of rebel cavalry was drawn up, under command of Generals Stuart and Wickham. My advance guard, composed of one squadron of the Fifth U. S. Cavalry, under Captain Leib, was charged by the First and Fifth Virginia Cavalry, led by Stuart in person. At first the charge, being unexpected, was partially successful, and forced the advance guard back upon the main body, but the entire regiment (Fifth U. S. Cavalry), being sent forward under Captain Arnold, gallantly repelled the charge of the enemy and drove them back in great disorder, capturing over 20 prisoners and recapturing those of our own men who had been taken in the first charge by the enemy. Without giving the enemy time to rally his scattered forces, I hurried forward my entire command, halting only long enough to allow Lieutenant Porter to place his guns in position and fire a few rounds after the retreating enemy. A portion of the enemy took the road to Bank's Ford, while the main body took the road leading to Burter's Ford. I pursued this latter force until he was driven across the South River, at a point near to Burton's Ford, on the Rapidan. A portion of my command crossed the South River and drove the enemy to the Rapidan. Here I placed my guns in position, and made other demonstrations as if determined to cross at Burton's Ford. The enemy, mistaking my real intentions, concentrated all his forces at this ford, for this purpose withdrawing them entirely from Banks' and the upper fords. Before he could detect my movement I faced my command about and moved rapidly to the road leading to Banks' Ford, at which point I crossed the river without molestation. The enemy discovered the change in my movements, but too late to profit thereby. A force of 500 cavalry, arrived in time to see my rear guard safely across the river.

My command returned to its camp without having suffered the loss of a man. While on this expedition it marched upwards of 150 miles, destroyed the bridge over the Rivanna River, burned 3 large flouring mills filled with grain and flour, captured 6 caissons and 2 forges, with harness complete; captured 1 standard bearing the arms of Virginia, over 50 prisoners, and about 500 horses, besides bringing away over 100 contrabands. A large camp of the enemy was also captured and destroyed near Charlottesville.

The conduct of the officers and men of my command was all that I could desire.

Respectfully submitted.

G. A. CUSTER,

Brigadier-General, Commanding Expedition.