GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, STATE OF CALIFORNIA,

ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,

Sacramento, September 10, 1862.

Major General H. W. HALLECK,

General-in-Chief:

GENERAL: I have the honor on behalf of the State authorities and the loyal citizens of California to present (briefly) a statement of the condition of affairs here. It is represented and generally believed that there is a secret organization in this State, numbering from 20,000 to 30,000 men, leagued together for the overthrow of our Government, and whose purpose it is if an opportunity should favor the scheme to carry the State out of the Union. These men openly boast that their sympathies are with the traitors of the South, and they are continually defaming the Government from which they receive protection and whose benefits they enjoy. They take pride in preaching their traitorous sentiments among loyal men, which they have hitherto done with impunity, and do much to discourage enlistments. Loyal citizens have now no protection from the insults of these men, many of whom are wealthy and influential, and U. S. soldiers have been shot down in the streets of our towns for protesting against the free use of disloyal sentiments in their presence, and the probabilities are that the deserving will go unwhipped of justice. The actions of this league are positive, and there is no immunity to loyal men in our community from insult and wrong.

The power of our Government should be manifested at once here and the union feeling of the masses fostered. If this is not done and our armies should meet with any considerable reverses serious trouble will be inaugurated on this coast. The loyal citizens of this State are now organizing into military companies, and are making daily applications for arms and equipments. They are preparing to give their services to the State of National Government, but the State cannot equip them. Will the General Government aid us in this emergency? Will the General Government aid us to maintain the Constitution and assert the power of our Government? Will they give us arms and equipments to putof loyal men whose services can be commanded for any and every emergency? There are arms at the Benicia Arsenal which would be of great service to the State at this time. Now, general, if, say 10,000 stand of muskets and accounterments or their equivalents in such other arms as might be required can be issued, I will guarantee that in three months we will have upon rolls of organized companies the name of a loyal citizen for every musket issued, who shall be preparing for service. Cannot this be done? This will be handed you by Brigadier-General Ellis, to whom you are very respectfully referred for a corroboration of the statements contained herein. I do most respectfully urge you, general, to give this subject early consideration and action. The arms will be duly receipted for and returned after the war if you should so determine.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

WM. C. KIBBE,

Adjutant-General State of California.