General S. COOPER,

Adjt. and Insp. General, C. S. Army, Richmond, Va.

Numbers 4. Report of Major James H. Nounnan, Sixteenth Virginia Cavalry.

LOGAN COUNTY, VA., February 7, 1864.

GENERAL: I left Colonel Ferguson in Wayne County ont he 26th ultimo with indefinite orders and discretionary powers, and moved in the direction of the Kanawha River, along which stream I maneuvered int he counties of Mason and Putnam until the 3rd instant. I entered Winfield (Putnam Court-House) on the morning of the 3rd instant at 3 o'clock with 40 men, and found a number of Government officials there, whom I failed to secure, and a Government steamer with a strong guard and a piece of artillery lying upon the opposite side of the river. With great difficulty I secured a small craft, capable only of carrying four men, with which I crossed a small party of 12 men, under Lieutenant E. G. Vertegans, who obeyed my instructions as speedily as possible in cutting the telegraph and assaulting the boat, which surrendered without firing a gun, although having moored several yards from the shore. I found a valuable cargo on board, consisting chiefly of medical stores and tarpaulin, a lot of arms, &c., and Brigadier General E. P. Scammon, Captain William G. Pinckard, and Lieutenant Frank Millward, of his staff, and Lieutenant William C. Lyons, Twenty-third Ohio Volunteers, and 25 non-commissioned officers and privates. I secured about 20 horses and some of the most valuable medicines, demolished the telegraph office, instruments, wire, &c., and moved tot he mouth of Big Hurricane, where I burned the boat and cargo of over $100,00 worth of medicines, destroyed the piece of artillery and a quantity of ammunition, paroled all the non-commissioned officers and privates except one, and determined to make my way through with the most valuable prisoners with as much speed as possible. The enemy pressed me heavily at all points in their efforts to recover the prisoners, and compelled me to come to this point.

I herewith send you General Scammon, Captain Pinckard, Lieutenants Millward and Lyons, and Sergt. Thomas McCormick, who refused to take a parole. I take great pleasure in bringing to your notice the coolness, discretion, and courage displayed by Lieutenant Vertegans, as well as the good behavior and daring courage and fortitude of my entire force. I shall report to Colonel Ferguson, in Wayne County, as speedily as possible, and send the prisoners through from this point with a mounted guard.

I remain, general, with much respect, your obedient servant,

JAS. H. NOUNNAN,

Major, Commanding Detachment Sixteenth Virginia Cavalry.