HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF WESTERN ARIZONA,
Tucson, Ariz. Ter., September 10, 1862.

Lieutenant B. C. CUTLER,

First Infantry California Volunteers,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Column from California:

SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival at this post on the 7th instant of Captain Whitlock's company (F), of the Fifth Infantry California Volunteers. I am anxiously awaiting further instructions from the commanding general in regard to sending Captain Davis forward. I have twice reported that no more than six wagons can be taken by Captain Davis toward the Rio Grande, there being no more animals on account of the non-return of any of those which went to the Rio Grande. There must have been a great miscalculation or misunderstanding in regard to the unseviceable mules and wagons to cause commanding general to believe there would be 200 mules disposable here to be taken forward by Captain Davis, as directed in the general's letter of August 4, the last communication I received from him. I detain Captain Davis until further orders, as the reason the general appears to have for ordering him forward was that the 200 mules and the wagons would be useful in New Mexico. But as there are only six teams instead of thirty-three, as he supposed, the wagons would no more than carry subsistence for the company escorting them and forage for the animals for about sixty days. I am at a loss how to act, and fear censure whatever course I may pursue. I send to Major Coult on his requisition twenty-one men of Company E, First Cavalry, under Lieutenant Wardwell, to "force open the communication with the headquarters of the column. " He fears, as do I, that as no express has been received for a month, and no train returned, the Indians may have cut off the express, and may be in force on some point between Fort Bowie, in Apache Pass, and Mesilla. I have to report that no reports of subsistence or quartermaster's stores on hand at or en route to or from Fort Yuma are sent to me or Captain davis or any one else. I cannot anc intelligently, nor otherwise than in a groping unmilitary way if such things are permitted. One would suppose that a feud existed between different commands in the same service, instead of the proper harmony any hearty co-operation there ought to exist. It is disheartening and disgusting, and irremediable by me considering my rank. Almost all the political prisoners sent to Fort Yuma return with certificates from Colonel Bowie that they are released by order of General Wright, on condition of taking the oath of allegiance. Many of them have receipts for horses taken up on the papers of various officers; they also claim arms said to have been taken from them here. No arms, no property of any kind was transferred to me. I can find none except some of Mowry's property. I beg to aks the general's orders about the horses for which said parties have receipts. White & Lennan sent me a sample of flour. It is ground in a very superior manner, but it is moldy, and tastes as if it had been buried in the ground. I fear no one but Lieutenant-General Coleman can settle with Pima Indians. Their tickets were given in such a way that he alone can unravel the business. I would request that he be returned to pay them off with the goods when they arrive. White is accused of purchasing the tickets of the Indians at a great discout. I am investigating this and have forbidden him to do so.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

D. FERGUSSON,

Major, First Cavalry California Volunteers, Commanding.