HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF CAIRO, Cairo, Ill., April 16, 1864.

Major General W. S. ROSECRANS,
Commanding Department of the Missouri:

SIR: Excuse my neglect of the matter of your communication by telegraph dated the 12th. The pressure of immediate duties has prevented earlier attention. I inclose a copy of General Hurlbut's letter of instructions (A); also copy of my order issued thereon, Numbers 15 (B); also copy of General Hurlbut's supplemental letter (C); also copy of my supplemental Orders, Numbers 21 (D); also my Orders, Numbers 16 (E) on a kindred subject; also my letter of April 2, showing the necessity of these orders (F).* That necessity has been tenfold more apparent since the orders were issued than before. You will notice that my order goes somewhat beyond the letter of instructions and contains matter for which General Hurlbut is not primarily responsible, the responsibility being with me. Being on the spot, being well advised, and time being important, I acted. I am satisfied that I was right, and as well satisfied that the measure does far as Missouri is concerned, if you desire it.

The reading of my letter (F) will explain so fully that I need not again say how fatal to us has been the unwarrantable freedom accorded to the landing of goods in places convenient for their passing into the enemy's hands. As soon as I can get communications past Fort Pillow, I will advise General Hurlbut of your dispatch and of this, my explanation. The Missouri side of the river is under the shadow of this post and I frequently find it necessary to visit that side to break up illicit trade, to control crossings, and to do other things concerning the safety of navigation, &c., but I respectfully disclaim any desire to do any act on that side which you would not at once request and authorize, were you near and personally cognizant of the facts. On the other hand, I shall take pleasure in responding to your wishes.

I will make another communication on a subject connected with your command below.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,

M. BRAYMAN,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.