FORT SUMTER, January 10, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to report that Captain J. B. Allston, 6 officers, and 100 men, from Twenty-seventh South Carolina Volunteers, relieved Captain Hammond, 6 officers, and 100 men, from Twenty-fifth South Carolina Volunteers. The steamer left the wharf without a proper head of steam and began drifting with the tide below the fort. Seeing that she ran great risk of being fired into by Sullivan's Island, as well as by the enemy, I directed both the telegraphic and signal operators to call Sullivan's Island. They tried for twenty minutes, from 12.30 to 12.50, without success. At the end of this time the steamer had recovered her position abreast of the fort. The night was perfectly calm and clear, and there is no possible excuse for the neglect of the signal.

From what I have seen of the working of this corps I would respectfully suggest that efficiency would be more certainly secured if the punishment was inflicted upon the operator, who by proper attention can always insure the vigilance of the reporting sentinels. I understand that there is a want of operators for the military telegraph line, and that many stations are supplied as Fort Sumter is, with only one officer. I would recommend that to each office one or more enlisted men may be assigned, who shall be instructed in the calls for that office, which a person of ordinary aptness for such matters could learn in a few days. In this way the attention of the office could be aroused at any time, which will into be the case if left to the wakefulness of a single person. I have had frequent opportunities of observing the working of the system since my residence at this post, and am confident that the proposed plan will answer.

Three blockading steamers this morning. In other respects report same as yesterday. Ironsides kept revolving light going all night; 42-pounder was placed upon the berm yesterday evening ready for shipment.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. ELLIOTT, JR.,

Lieutenant-Colonel, Commanding.

Lieutenant S. C. BOYLSTON.