Numbers 26. Report of Colonel Philip P. Brown, jr., One hundred and fifty-seventh New York Infantry, of expedition to John's Island and skirmishers.

HEADQUARTERS 157TH NEW YORK VOLUNTEERS, Folly Island, S. C., February 14, 1864.

CAPTAIN: In compliance with circular received February 13, I have the honor to submit the following report of the part sustained by this regiment in the late expedition into Seabrook Island:

The One and fifty-seventh New York Volunteers left camp on the evening of Sunday, February 7, with 173 armed men, 10 cooks, 4 stretcher-bearers, 10 pioneers, 3 hospital attendants, 3 detailed as orderlies; total, 203 men, commanded by 1 field, 2 staff, 3 line, and 4 acting officers; total force, 213. In accordance with orders from brigade headquarters, the regiment proceeded to Stono Landing, where it arrived a little after 8 p. m. It was ferried across to Kiawah Island 12.30 o'clock the same night, and at once commenced march on the left of the brigade. It arrived at the Vanderhost plantation at daybreak, and bivouacked during the night at that place, in the same order in the brigade. March was resumed at 9 p. m., the regiment being third form the right. In this order it arrived at the Seabrook plantation in the early morning, when it was at once ordered to throw out skirmishers. Lieutenant Gates, with Company G and parts of Companies A and I, was detailed for that purpose, making a force of 40 men. Lieutenant Gates advanced under the direction of General Ames at 8.15 a. m.,and was immediately met by a brisk fire from the rebel skirmishers, who had advanced from the woods and were charging over a rise of ground. They obtained possession of a line of hedge and ditch, but were speedily dislodged by our men, who drove them into the open filed. Here our line was re-enforced by a body of the Seventy-fifth Ohio Volunteers, who deployed on our right. Colonel Harris, Seventy-fifth Ohio Volunteers, here took command, and the line advancing pushed the rebels into the woods and continued driving them from half a dozen positions, until a halt was ordered at the distance of about 2 1\2 miles from the main force. Major Rice, One hundred and forty-fourth New York, had command at this time.

In the mean time the regiment had advanced with the brigade into the field of the first skirmish, having formed line of battle and the flank on the left of the brigade up the main road through the woods and field at the rear of the picket-line, already established by Major Rice. One hundred and forty-fourth New York Volunteers. Colonel Brown was then ordered to take command of the One hundred and seventh Ohio Volunteers, which, with his own regiment, was to form the left wing of the advance. The One hundred and seventh Ohio Volunteers were then orders forward as skirmishers, the One hundred and fifty-seventh New York Volunteers following as a reserve. The line having advanced in this order over two wide fields, it was checked upon entering the third by a fire form the rebel skirmishers, who were strongly intrenched. This was communicated to General Ames, who ordered a cessation of the advance, and afterward the withdrawal of the line. Just before the line was checked parties were dispatched to search the buildings of a plantation near the river and destroy all arms found there. The line was withdrawn in good order. The regiment was then ordered to the rear, where it bivouacked behind the earth-works already alluded to . They were at once strengthened so as to form a ditch and parapet of considerable strength.

In this position the regiment remained from Tuesday afternoon until Thursday noon, February 11. It was then ordered, with the One hundred and seventh Ohio Volunteers and Seventy-third Ohio, to advance in support of columns already advanced. Marching by the flank, this force, under the direction of General Ames, proceeded along the left of the forest to within supporting distance of the skirmishers and batteries previously sent out. The regiment took no other active part in this day's operations until it was ordered at dusk to establish a chain of outposts to connect with those of the One hundred and sixty-ninth New York Volunteers on the extreme right. This was executed as speedily as possible, a line of about forty-five posts of 3 men each being established at intervals of 15 paces, in favorable positions, and a reserve of 30 kept in the rear. At midnight orders were received for the withdrawal of the line, which was effected noiselessly and in good order, and the regiment rejoined the brigade between 1 and 2 a. m. It then marched on the left of the brigade from the scene of as action, and reached camp at 4 p. m., Friday, February 12.

I have to report William Pierce, Company I, mortally wounded in the skirmish of the first day, and J. Quick, Company I, not seriously; also M. B. Sheldon, missing (supposed to have strayed away on the last night to sleep). He is half-witted.

Our men report having seen 1 rebel captain killed (who was afterward decently interred) and 1 rebel wounded, besides several carried off by their comrades. They captured 3 rebels. One horse, 3 carbines, and 3 sabers were taken by us.

I have to transmit herewith the report of Lieutenant Gates, commanding our force of skirmishers.

P. P. BROWN, JR.,

Colonel, Commanding 157th New York Volunteers.

Captain J. M. BROWN,

Assistant Adjutant-General, Ames' Brigade.