BATESVILLE, ARK., January 24, 1864

Captain H. C. FILLEBROWN,

Asst. Adjt. General, District of Northeastern Arkansas:

CAPTAIN: In accordance with Special Orders, Numbers 13, headquarters District Northeastern Arkansas, dated January 16, 1864, and letter of instructions of same date, I left Batesville about daylight the 17th, in command of the First Battalion, First Cavalry, Nebraska Volunteers, consisting of 150 men and 5 commissioned officers, moving directly to Powhatan, the crossing of Black River, passing in the route Smithville, and ferried my command over by 11 p.m.; distance, 45 miles. I here fed. At daybreak was on the move down the river in the direction of Jacksonport. The result of the first 3 miles march was the killing of 1 man named Grissome, a bushwhacker, the capture of 1 sergeant, having several letters and official documents from General Price, Colonel Shelby, and others of no particular importance, and 2 privates, Confederate soldiers, horses, equipments, and arms. Three miles from this point we were met by 6 Confederate soldiers belonging to Captain McVeigh's company; captured 3 and pressed the others so closely that they deserted their horses, thereby leaving them in our hands.

Hearing that at or opposite a place below on Black River, called Bird's Point (distance, 24 miles), there was a company of 20, I moved forward as fast as possible without meeting or seeing anything worthy of note. Upon arriving near this point I ascertained that there was a party of about that number a scattered around at houses off the main road. I immediately disposed of my command so as to surround all the houses in that neighborhood, the result of which was the capture of Colonel Brand, Captain Edwards, Captain McVeigh, Captain Webb, Lieutenant Smith, Lieutenant Wylie and 12 men, C. S. Army, with their horses and arms, except those of the officers, which they managed to secrete so effectively that it was impossible for me to find them. By this time it was getting dark. I then moved forward 5 miles to a point on Black River called Elgin, and fed. After feeding at this point I allowed my men to lie down and rest until 3 o'clock, at which time I had them in line ready to move. At this mounted I received a dispatch from Colonel Livingston, by a courier from Captain Kauffman, stating that he (Colonel Livingston) had sent me 150 men under Captain Kauffman, as re-enforcements; also that General McRae occupied Jacksonport with 250 men.

I at once sent a messenger to Captain Kauffman to hurry up with all possible dispatch, at the same time sending one squadron under Lieutenant Murphy, Company F, First Nebraska Cavalry, with instructions to go 1 1/2 miles in advance and occupy with his command all the roads, place a guard around all the houses he passed sufficient to keep any person from getting out to give information of our presence and ascertain the exact force in Jacksonport and report to me by courier as soon as he had accomplished his mission. I then ordered my men to dismount and get their breakfast. The information thus obtained was to the effect that Jacksonport was only occupied by some 30 men under Captain Siddell, C. S. [Army]. At 12 m. my messenger returned from Captain Kauffman, stating that he was near at hand.

Feeling that I had a sufficient force to move into Jacksonport, I did not wait for Captain Kauffman, fearing that by some means they (the enemy) might perhaps get information of our presence and leave. Moving up with as much celerity and caution as I possibly could to within 2 miles of the town, where the roads forked, I divided my command, sending three squadrons under the command of Captain Curran to the right, down Black River (one, however, was guarding provisions, which I ordered him to leave a half mile behind before charging into town). With the other two I moved down below, to cut off their retreat in case they got sight of him first. After arriving at a certain point, at a certain time a signal was to be given by me (the firing of a pistol), upon which the whole command was to dash into town, which done, the result was the killing of Captain Eckells, 5 Confederate soldiers, and the capture of Captain Siddell, Lieutenants Washburn, Owen, Bell, and 16 men, C. S. Army, all their horses, horse equipments and some arms, they managing mostly to throw their arms away. There being snow on the ground it was impossible for us to find them.

At this time the detachment of the Eleventh Missouri, under Captain Kauffman, came in. I ascertained from some of the prisoners captured that Major Snider, C. S. Army, with from 60 to 80 men, was encamped about 8 miles from in the Conditt settlement. I at once placed my prisoners in the most suitable building, leaving as a guard Company A, First Cavalry, Nebraska Volunteers, numbering 32 men, and ordered Captain Kauffman with his command down White River to the crossing of Village Creek used in the morning by them (the means of crossing being only a small raft, the stream unfordable), with instructions to follow up their trail, which could easily be discerned on account of the snow. I then moved out in the direction of the camp with my battalion for the purpose of attacking them, but before reaching that point I got information to the effect that they had notice of our presence and were moving down to the crossing of Village Creek, then occupied by Captain Kauffman.

Moving as rapidly as possible by the shortest route to the road they were on, I struck it just fifteen minutes behind them. Shortly after firing was heard in the front, supposed by me to be the Eleventh Missouri attacking their advance, which was correct. Urging my horses up to full speed, I shortly encountered them, at the same gait, on their retreat from Captain Kauffman..

Upon their discovery of my command they or their advance (they having changed front so suddenly that their rear might properly [be] called their advance) fired one volley. Returning the fire I charged them, they scattering in every direction. At this point my horse was so frenzied with excitement that he became altogether ungovernable carrying me to the left and entirely away from my command into a party of the retreating foe numbering from 15 to 20. Feeling that my own personal safety depended altogether on my own action, I shot 3, which so terrified the rest that several that I heard sangout, "I surrender." I managed to throw myself off my horse and make my way back to the command, a distance of over 1 mile, after which I sent my men in every direction scouring the woods and swamps thoroughly. The result of this attack was the Eleventh Missouri, under Kauffman, killing 2 capturing 3, with their horses and arms; my command killing 3, capturing 3, 1 being mortally and 1 slightly wounded.

I then moved my command back to Jacksonport, arriving at that point at daylight (the 20th). Upon my arrival I was informed that by the use of a pocket knife the prisoners had cut a hole in the floor sufficiently large to crawl through. By this means Colonel Brand, Captain Edwards, Captain McVeigh, Captain Webb, Captain Siddell, Captain ---, Lieutenant Smith, Wylie, Washburn, Owen, Bell, 1 sergeant, and 10 Confederate soldiers had effected their escape, the rest of the prisoners at that time being asleep. I at once ordered my command out in every direction to, if possible, recapture them, but failed after a vigilant search until 4 p.m. 20th. Upon the return of my scouting parties, I ordered Captain Kauffman to at once cross Black River, taking with him all the prisoners then in my possession, and report to Batesville, which he did, arriving at that point at 4 a.m., 21st, turning prisoners, horses, and arms over to Captain Allen, provost-marshal.

Pursuant to previous instructions, I remained with my command at Jacksonport for the protection of a boat expected up the river with supplies for Batesville. The boat did not arrive until after dark on the night of the 21st, and anchored in the stream opposite town. At daylight on the morning of the 22nd, she moved up the river and I crossed my command over Black River. By the time I was across she came back, reporting that it was impossible for he to move up the river for the reason that she was then drawing 5 1/2 feet water, and there was not that amount in the channel above the point where Black emptied into White River, consequently Major W. ordered her to lighten up to 3 feet, by unloading, a portion of her load, and try it again.

The commissary stores unloaded I left to be guarded by four squadrons under Captain Curran, on this side of Black River, a distance from this point of 25 miles. Feeling that the stores were perfectly secure under charge of Captain Curran, with four squadrons First Nebraska Cavalry, and that my presence was not needed, I took one squadron and came through, leaving at 1 p.m., 22nd, and arriving at this place at 10 p.m. same evening. The whole distance marched by my command was about 150 miles.

The accompanying diagram* will show more perfectly the route traveled by me than I could possibly explain in writing. The result of the whole expedition was following: Killed of the enemy, 1 captain, 15 men; wounded, 2, 1 mortally, 1 slightly; capture of 1 colonel, 4 captains, 5 lieutenants, 1 sergeant, and 40 men, belonging to various commands of the C. S. Army. My command escaped, fortunately, without the loss or injury of a single man. I regret exceedingly that such ill fate should befall me as the loss of the officers and men before enumerated by escaping. It was the most mortifying thing that ever happened me in my military life. The officers and soldiers of my command endured the fatigues and hardships of the expedition as should all good soldiers, with activity and cheerfulness, always ready and ever anxious to engage the enemy, regardless of numbers.

The whole expedition was conducted with so much secrecy that the inhabitants of the country through which I passed were taken completely by surprise. The moral effect upon them surpassed even my most sanguine expectations. The prevalent opinion now is that the Confederates are not safe anywhere within the limits of this district. The effect upon the enemy is demoralizing in the extreme; they are losing all heart. Their leaders can no longer buoy them up with the false hope of success, and they are in many instances themselves watching a favorable opportunity to return to their allegiance.

I am, captain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

THOMAS J. MAJORS,

Captain, Commanding Expedition.