WASHINGTON, December 28, 1863

Honorable S. H. Boyd, member of the House from your State, has received a letter from General J. W. Davidson, dated at Little Rock, Ark., in which the general speaks as follows of the "conciliatory policy:"

"I wrote a letter of introduction to you for Mr. E. W. Gantt, of Arkansas. He is a reclaimed rebel, and I hope you will do all for him you can. He desires the good of Arkansas and is sound, not only on the emancipation proclamation, but on the whole question and desires a convention of the State to repeal the slavery clause in the constitution of Arkansas. You will find he is a man of talent, and acts with that great party which proclaims and will have universal emancipation. Gantt stands high with the President, I am informed, for the course he has taken, and will tell you all about the conciliatory policy here, which, up to this hour, ninety days after we took possession of Little Rock, has not reclaimed one rebel, and is dishearting to the really Union men of this State, and disgusting to this whole army.

"All the stories you see in the Chicago Times about secessionists coming in and laying down their arms and their prejudices are sheer lies. Those who come in were always Union men, not made so by any conciliatory policy, but have been hunted like game through the hills of Arkansas, and are now coming in because they found a rallying point-a Federal army. Not one rebel in Little Rock has come forward and renewed his allegiance to his Government, nor no conciliatory policy could make them do it, but it makes them only more, obstinate in their opinions. You may rely on what I write you as facts. The Union men of Arkansas are 'unconditional Union men,' and, strange as it may appear, in favor of expunging the perpetual slavery clause, or any other slavery clause, from the State constitution. You can use my name for these facts whenever you please, for they are vouched for by Gantt, Judge Isaac Murphy,and other thorough Union men, and my own observation."