[Inclosure.]

HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE NORTHWEST,
Milwaukee, Wis., January 18, 1864

Brigadier General A. SULLY,

Commanding District of Iowa, Davenport, Iowa:

GENERAL: It is my purpose with the opening of spring to establish the following posts in the Indian country: First. A post of three companies of infantry and five of cavalry at Devil's Lake. Second. A post of three companies of infantry and five companies of cavalry on James River, nearly west of Fort Abercrombie. Third. A post of four companies of infantry and at least a battalion of cavalry at or near Fort Clarke, on the upper Missouri. Fourth. A post somewhere on Yellowstone River, southwest or nearly so of Fort Clarke. The garrison of this post will be determined during the summer campaign.

The post near Fort Clarke had best be as far below that post a is expedient, in view of its being the depot for the supply of the post at Devil's Lake. Will you please give this subject such careful examination immediately as is in your power, and report to me as soon as practicable your views on the subject? The posts at Devil's Lake and on James River will be established by General Sibley and garrisoned by troops from Minnesota; the post below Fort Clarke by yourself. If necessary (and I suppose it will be) I will send four infantry companies from here, to escort the steamers carrying up supplies, which companies will constitute the garrison of the post near Fort Clarke.

As I have hitherto informed you, the posts at Devil's Lake and on James River will be supplied, the first from the post near Fort Clarke, the second from the post of Farm Island. You will be charged with their supply and will accordingly take the necessary steps for that purpose. In proper time you will be ordered to Saint Louis to arrange for all these and for your expedition in the spring. I will inform you in time of the movement of troops from Minnesota for the purpose above set forth, and also to complete the campaign against the Minnesota and Dakota Sioux.

I am, general, respectfully, your obedient servant,

JNO. POPE,

Major-General, Commanding.