Pass Cavallo, Tex., April 11, 1864.

Lieutenant Colonel RICHARD B. IRWIN,

Asst. Adjt. General, Department of the Gulf:

COLONEL: I have just returned from a tour of inspection and observation, embracing the whole coast of Texas south of this place and the frontier from the mouth of the Rio Grande to Brownsville. I will not dwell on the details affecting the condition of our forces stationed along this extended line, which were lately brought to the attention of the general commanding by Major-General Ord, and which either have been or are in course of being definitely arranged. I pass to other considerations. The health of the troops is good, excepting some cases of ophthalmia, increasing in number and caused by flying sand, and a limited number of other cases such as are incident to camp life. Fatigue duties have been heavy and continuous, consisting of constructing defensive works in shifting sands and unloading boats. The amount of labor bestowed on such works here on Mustang Island and at Brazos Santiago would, from the cause mentioned, have reproduced the same works several times. The works here are nearly completed, except rivetting with sod, which, from the scarcity of such material and of wagons to haul it, has proved to be a tedious job.

In the absence of suitable lumber I have improvised, to the extent of my limited means, temporary platforms for guns for such of the works as are ready to receive them. The works on Mustang Island are of little or no value, not only for want of intelligent and consistent design, but from the difficulty, if not impracticability, of preserving their identity amid the drifting sands. Major Thompson, who is in command on this island, informed me that the location of his camp was fixed at or about the time our forces left there for Fort Esperanza, and that he had not felt at liberty to remove it. The location is immediately among the hand-hills and is almost uninhabitable. Have ordered an examination to be made for the purpose of ascertaining whether the garrison and guns there might not be transferred to a position on the foot of Saint Joseph's Island equally favorable to command Aransas Pass more favorable for a camp; but of course, in view of what has been said, would not order accordingly without the consent of the general commanding.

Major Thompson has scoured the neighboring shores and captured all the enemy's boats, large and small, that he could find. On the night before I arrived at Mustang one of his parties had occupied Corpus Christi and learned that Nolan's rebel company had been infesting that vicinity. Corpus Christi, as I learned at Brownsville, has been since occupied by Ford's command, numbering variously, according to different accounts, from 400 to 700. The work on Brazos Island is misplaced and incapable of commanding the inlet to Laguna del Madre, but a new work has been begun by Colonel Hodge, commanding that post, which, from its plan and location, with proper armament, will be effectual for the purpose. Six guns with barbette carriages were being unloaded there, as I was informed for the works at Brownsville. The route between these two places, via Boca Chica, has superseded the more difficult one via Point Isabel, and thus time and distance have been saved. In view of this fact, I cannot see that any valuable object is to be secured by continuing the present garrison of two companies at Point Isabel, unless it be to secure the light-house there from further injury. Should the enemy occupy that point, which is hardly supposable, we could cut off his escape by marching upon him either from Brownsville or Brazos Island. Colonel Hodge is now throwing a bridge across Boca Chica which, when completed, will much facilitate communication between the island and Brownsville. The project railroad between the island and Hall's ranch, on the Rio Grande, would still more facilitate it, and I think should be early completed. Colonel Hodge needs an addition to his force for fatigue duty. I would recommend that one of the colored regiments at Port Hudson be sent to him; also, that another be sent here to relieve the heavy fatigue in handling stores and constructing defenses. I understand that Colonel A. J. Edgerton, commanding Sixty-seventh U. S. Infantry (colored), desires to come here. His regiment would be very acceptable.

The works at Brownsville are well planned as against the rebels, and are well constructed, so far as they have progressed. Old Fort Brown has been partly dismantled, and materials taken from it for the works above the town, which has been abandoned. This fort is the only work which would afford defense against attack from the opposite side of the Rio Grande, and should be rebuilt; and to meet contingencies on that side, it would be well to throw up two batteries, one above and the other below old Fort Brown, on the river bank, thus commanding the Mexican side of the river by a perfect cross-fire of artillery, and securing the rear of the works now under construction, which is entirely exposed. The inclosed drawing* will illustrate the plan of the works near Brownsville. The alterations I propose are marked in red ink.

I have directed that all deficiencies existing in any of the staff departments be immediately supplied. In conclusion, it would be enchanted to conceal the fact that the long-continued dispersion of this corps over so extended a space has been and still is working injury to its morale and efficiency. To arrest this evil and to secure an opportunity for aggressive operations, it is earnestly recommended, in accordance with the universal desire both of officers and privates, that the corps be early concentrated and ordered upon active service in the field.

I have the honor to be, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN A . McCLERNAND,

Major-General, Commanding.