Talk of Brigadier General Benjamin Alvord to the chiefs of the New Perce Indians, assembled at the Lapwait Agency, Wash. Ter., on the 24th of October, 1862.

I left Fort Vancouver to visit you before I had heard of the murders in your country. The report of them met me at the Des Chutes on my way up the Columbia. I have come to see you in order to assure you that the Government desires to do all in its power to protect you. Hereafter, as heretofore, every officer under me wll be directed to spare no exertion to afford all possible protection to you. Oftentimes this duty must necessarily be performed imperfectly, and your will, as heretofore, often find our intentions and wishes more satisfactory than our performances. You are entitled to this protection by the treaty. You are also doubly entiteld to this carte and friendship from your long and unwavering fidelity to our people and to our flag. You received with kindness Lewis and Clark sixty years ago, when they crossed the Rocky Mountains and wintered on the Clearwater. You were kind to Colonel Bonneville in 1835, and to Fremont in 1843. In 1847 you indignantly rejected the proposition of the Cayuse, after the murder of Doctor Whitman, to join in a war. In the spring of 1853 I was in command at The Dalles, and I learned that you again scornfully rejected the messages of the Cayuse asking you to join in a grand combination for a war against the whites. That war did not finally break out until two years later, when you refused to join them and aided Governor Stevens in safely reaching Walla Walla from the Blackfeet country. In 1858, under General Wright, in the Palouse and Coeur d'Alene country, some of you fought on our side, and we promised accordingly to fight for you against your enemies. You will never have a worse enemy than the whisky sellers and the bad whites who intrude upon your and commit outrages upn you and on your families.

Major Rinearson has been making war upon them as Captain Smith did a year or two ago. Lh, he is a warm friend to the Nez Perces. Major Rinearson shall continue to discharge this duty. He will remain here permanently, and will build a military post, and will no doubt continue hereafter, as heretofore, faithfully to discharge the task confided to him. It will be his duty to make all good Indians his friends by doing all he can to protect you when requested by the Indian agent to prevent the whites from settling upon your farming and grazing lands, to aid in the arrest of whites who commit crimes against the Indians, and to punish those who sell or give whisky to your people. When I first met Lawyer with Mr. Craig in 1853 at The Dalles you were then fortunately remote from the emigrant road, and I had hoped that thus you would have an opportunity of developing and cultivating those elements of Christianity and civilization which had by the aid of missionaris been planted among you. As one woshiping the same God and Savior, I must admit that I took a deep interest in the experiment.

When encamped near The Dalles in May, 1853, your men were seen to kneel on the ground and say their prayers and worship in truth and sincerity the great God of Heaven. You won in that way my respect and regard. Could I have had my will, I would have raised a wall as high as the heavens around you to keep out intruders. It is very sad to find that the discovery of gold and the consequent rush of miners to this country should have brought such a mass of the very worst white men in contact with you, and thus impeded your improvement. Better if all the gold found there were sunk in the oean than that such injustice should be done you. In this unfortunate and unlooked-for state of affairs the best the Government can do for you is to provide, as it has, for the making of a new treaty, so as to compensate you so far as possible for the unauthorized occupation of the gold mines by our people. It is true that no amount of money can compensate you for your injured feelings. But the making of this treaty is not given to me. It is in other hands.

It will be my duty after a new treaty is made to aid the Indian agent in enforcing it. Some vexatious delays have occurred in executing the old treaty. A portion of the annuities were at Wallula as I passed there. The new superintendent, Mr. Hale, is an honorable gentleman, who I am sure wishes to do you justice. He had to send his bonds to Washington before he could get money for you. But that delay will soon be at an end. When the Pacific railroad is built, which the present Congress has provided for commencing, we can communicate so quickly with Washington that such delays will be at an end. Some of you and some of your sons will yet visit the Great Father at Washington on that railroad. Believe not the deceitful words of the cunning and slanderous men who say that this great Government has lost its power. The very reverse is true. Never was the Government so mighty and terrible in its power. Never did it have so many rifles or so many soldiers. It has a million of brave and gallant warriors in the field. In the very midst of such a war it makes a beginning, as I have already said, of a Pacific railroad. Owing to the delays interposed by the Southern States, that measure was never before started. The Northern people have all the country from here to Texas, including California, Utah, New Mexico, Nebraska, and Kansas--nearly all to the Mississippi River. You are under a great, a proud, a rich, and a generous Government, and never did we have more noble, patient, and faithful allies than the Nez Perces. It takes fire to temper steel. Temptation is the test and trial of virtue. If a Nez Perce's lodge will stand rain and storm and hail and burricane, it is then well pitched; it is then firmly secured to the earth. The sun may shine, but fair weather and sunshine are no test for it. It required al this severe and harassing treatment by the gold diggers to show how true and honest and straightforward a Nez Perce can be. Such fidelity shall always have my praise. We wish in return for it not only to be fair, not only to be just, but to be also as kind and as generous as possible toward you.

BENJ. ALVORD,

Brigadier-General, Commanding District.