HDQRS. DISTRICT OF NORTHEASTERN ARKANSAS, Batesville, Ark., April 16, 1864.

Lieutenant Colonel JOHN W. STEPHENS,
Commanding Post at Batesville, Ark.:

COLONEL: You have been appointed commander of the post of Batesville, with a command consisting of Fourth Arkansas Mounted Infantry and one squadron Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, amounting in all to 450 men. You will exercise the most rigid and vigilant discipline. Permit no acts of disobedience or plundering to pass unpunished. Camped your command to respect the persons and property of citizens, and see to it that a vigilant system of picketing is constantly kept up. You cannot drill your men too much. Maintain obedience to all orders of this division, department, and district in the most sacred manner, and you will be successful in your duties.

In your treatment of citizens always make a clear distinction between the unequivocally loyal and the disloyal; refer all claims of disloyal parties to be settled by a claims commissioner, to be appointed by Congress after civil government is established in this State. Afford protection and foster the loyal men and families of your jurisdiction, permitting rations to be issued in accordance with the orders of the War Department to those only who are really destitute and deserving. Learn to say no to those appeals to your heart which would lead you to transcend or violate prudence and published orders. Bear in mind, as paramount to all other considerations, the good of the service. Damage the enemy whenever opportunity occurs, but incur no unnecessary risks.

You will appoint a discreet officer as provost-marshal, whom you can empower to levy fines, taxes on merchants, &c., from which fund you can pay the expenses of his office. Compel all captured property to be turned over to the local provost-marshal, and he to account satisfactorily to the district provost-marshal on the 10th, 20th, and last days of each month. Permit no liquor to be sold to your troops, and by example and otherwise discountenance and prevent the abuse of intoxicating drinks both among citizens and the army. Send frequent communications to district headquarters, and keep me thoroughly advised of all that transpires, or which may be of the least interest.

As fast as the men now in post hospital recover, send them to their respective commands, when escorts or boats are going the proper direction. If it becomes necessary to make a contract with of the sick of your command, and exercise all those powers which you long experience as a soldier entitle you to possess for the great final triumph of a free government over the base rebellion we are now battling against.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. R. LIVINGSTON,

Colonel First Nebraska Cavalry, Commanding District.