FEBRUARY 19, 1864.-Capture of wagon train at Waugh's Farm, near Batesville, Ark.

Report of Colonel Robert R. Livingston, First Nebraska Cavalry, commanding District of Northeastern Arkansas.

HDQRS. DISTRICT OF NORTHEASTERN ARKANSAS,
Batesville, February 21, 1864.

LIEUTENANT: There are about 2,000 of the enemy hovering around me, in bands of from 100 or 400 strong each. They are very active and harass my foraging trains constantly. On the 19th instant 35 wagons, escorted by 100 men, were surprised only 12 miles from here and all captured, together with 32 of this command captured, 10 wounded, and 4 killed.

Captain Castle, Eleventh Missouri Cavalry, in charge of escort, paid the penalty of his neglect with his life. The whole affair was most disgraceful to our arms, as the enemy was just about our own strength and not as well armed or equipped.

We cannot move, no matter how cautious or secret we endeavor to be, without the inhabitants betraying us. The principal messenger saree women, just such bitter enemies as Mr. Neeby and her eldest daughter, who have been caught in flagrante delicto.

I have driven Freeman across Black River and over Village Creek to the east, but the had moved to the south and will prove very annoying in the swamps east of Black River. My force is small, and I cannot spare the necessary number of men to garrison Jacksonport, because my escorts and working parties with forage trains, having to go 40 and 50 miles for corn, necessarily require to be large, leaving but a small force for the defense of the stores at this point. If the major-general commanding could spare me some troops so as to occupy Jacksonport it would facilitate our operations here very materially.

The enemy can readily throw in 700 men at Jacksonport, so that for the ordinary purposes of foraging, picket, fatigue, and usual amount of detached service, aside from all scouting parties and forces left to defend the place, you can readily see that not less than a regiment would be necessary at that point. When I was sent here it was understood that Jacksonport was occupied, and that it would be held.

I transmit herewith copied of instructions and order assigning me to this command, together with list of staff officers doing duty with me. Be pleased to notify me whether there shall be a change or if I shall retain these officers, and whether I am in command of a post or a district.

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

R. R. LIVINGSTON,

Colonel First Regiment Nebraska Cav., Commanding District.

Lieutenant G. O. SOKALSKI,

Actg. Asst. Adjt. General, Army of Arkansas, Little Rock.