[Inclosure Numbers 2.]

CONFIDENTIAL.] HDQRS. ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, February 27, 1864.

Brigadier General J. KILPATRICK,

Commanding Expedition, &c.:

The major-general commanding has directed Major-General Pleasonton, commanding Cavalry Corps, to re-enforce your command so that you will have available 4,000 officers and men and a battery of light artillery. With this force you will move with the utmost expedition possible on the shortest route past the enemy's right flank to Richmond, and by this rapid march endeavor to effect an entrance into that city and liberate our prisoners now held there and in that immediate vicinity.

To create a diversion in your favor a powerful expedition has been organized and will be in full movement to-morrow, the 28th instant, to operate toward the left flank of the enemy in the direction of Charlottesville, which will be extended to the railroad bridge across the Rivanna, in the vicinity of that town, if practicable, and the bridge destroyed. This operation will be followed up by other movements of troops, and it is expected by these means so to distract the attention of the enemy that every chance for the success of your expedition will be secured that it is practicable to provide for here.

If you succeed in liberating the prisoners you will conduct them within our lines at Williamsburg, and then, if, if your judgment, upon the facts known to you as to the disposition of the forces of the enemy and the state of the weather, it be practicable you will return to your former position in this army by way of the crossings of the Rappahannock or Rapidan. The movements intended to create a diversion in your favor will be in full operation on the 28th and 29th instant, and will extend beyond that time. You will therefore commence your movement on the night of the 28th instant.

I am directed by the major-general commanding to say that no detailed instructions are given you, since the plan of your operations has been proposed by yourself, with the sanction of the President and the Secretary of War, and has been so far adopted by him that he considers success possible with secrecy, good management, and the utmost expedition.

A. A. HUMPHREYS,

Major-General, Chief of Staff.