IN THE FIELD, NEAR HARRISONBURG, LA.,

March 3, 1864.

SIR: I have the honor to report that the left section of this battery (two 12-pounder field howitzers, Lieutenant O. Gaudet commanding), stationed at Trinity, La., 12 miles below Harrisonburg, on the right bank of the Ouachita River, near the mouth of Little River, opened on the iron-clad gun-boat of the enemy called the Osage on the afternoon of March 1, instant, at 5.30 p. m., from the road or street leading into the town on the open bank of the river, firing at 100 yards distance. Fired five shell without fuse as solid shot, striking the vessel, but glancing upward from her iron casing without effecting any injury or retarding her progress. The gun-boat replied from heavy rifled guns in her tower, firing shell and grape, but firing over the section, which sustained no injury in guns, men, or horses. The Osage was followed by four tin-clad gun-boats, protected by a covering of boiler iron. These, however, remained below Trinity out of range, until the iron-clad had passed the front of the town, when one of the tin-clads entered the mouth of the Little River on his right flank, and opened on the right and rear of the howitzer section with grape and shell, compelling Lieutenant Gaudet to retire. At the same time he saw clearly that he could not delay the iron-clad Osage, she having reached his immediate front, and was firing at or over him from about 50 yards in a very exposed position. Lieutenant Gaudet, not having been notified in time of the approach of the gun-boats, was unable to reach the position that had been previously selected for his guns, which was lower down the river. This section retired, as ordered, on the Harrisonburg road, marching all night over a road that had become nearly impassable by the rains for artillery and other carriages. To enable him to bring the pieces to this place by doubling his teams, the two caissons were left on the road 6 miles in the rear. They have since been brought in with mule teams. Lieutenant Gaudet reports the loss of some of the cartridges from his caissons, two axes, and one tarpaulin stolen the night he was engaged in moving his two guns to Harrisonburg. No casualties to report.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

T. A. FARIES,

Captain, Commanding Battery, Second Division Infantry.

Major J. C. MONCURE,

Asst. Adjt. General, Second Brigadier, Louisiana Infty.