February 19.-Resumed the march at 5 a. m. toward Pocahontas, crossing Spring River and Eleven Points River; at the latter crossing lost 1 man belongings to Company G by drawing. A scout was here sent out, who came up with the command 4 miles from where I had halted and reported having ran into a camp supposed to number about 40. They were fired upon and were compelled to retreat to the command. One private of Company C was wounded by a shot in the foot. I immediately proceeded with the Second Battalion to their camp and found it deserted. No trace of the course they had taken could be found. I then returned and proceeded with the command to Pocahontas, where we arrived at 10 a. m. Found but 2 or 3 rebels in the place, and those escaped as we entered. A ferry-boat load was crossing the river. Our advance fired upon the boat, wounding 1 man. The party in the boat gained the shore and sought protection behind trees and logs. On the opposite shore and a short distance farther down the stream a company of rebels were posted also behind trees and logs. A brisk fire of a few minutes was kept up between them and our advance. A number of horses were tied on the bank within range. They succeeded in getting all away except 4; these my men shot. Finding there was no enemy on this side of the river, that there was no way of crossing, and no forage to be had, I deemed it impracticable to pursue them farther, and at 2 p. m. started on the return. I could not hear of the whereabouts of Porter's command, and from all information i could gather do not believe there has ever been any such a force in that neighborhood. We pushed on 14 miles, and at 6 o'clock p. m. halted to feed the animals. At this place met your messenger ordering me to return to Batesville. Remained here until 7.30 p. m., then moved on 21 miles, and at 2 a. m., February 20, halted at Johnston's plantation; remained here until 4.30 a. m., when I resumed the march. At 8 a. m. halted of feed; remained 2 hours, and proceeded to Batesville, where we arrived at 3.30 p. m. Found forage and beef-cattle very scarce between Pocahontas and this place. In accordance with orders from district headquarters 2 of the jayhawkers captured on the 18th instant were shot on the 19th. One Barker, a jayhawker, also was shot in trying to escape.

The total loss on the part of the enemy was, killed, 8; wounded, 1; captured, 31. Three took the oath of allegiance and were released. Four horses killed and about 50 were brought in with the command. Army and equipments taken were destroyed. Loss on part of our forces during the expedition was, drowned, 1; wounded, 1; horses, 12 disabled and were killed or abandoned. The distance traveled by the main column was 240 miles, distance traveled by detachments from 80 to 100 miles farther.

I remain, captain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

WM. BAUMER,

Lieutenant Colonel First Nebraska Cava., Commanding Expedition.

Captain H. C. FILLEBROWN,

Asst. Adjt. General, Dist. of Northeastern Arkansas.