Captain R. S. SEABURY,

Assistant Adjutant-General.

Numbers 17. Report of Lieutenant Colonel Isaac M. Lusk, One hundred and eleventh New York Infantry.

HDQRS. 111TH REGIMENT NEW YORK VOLUNTEERS,
Dumpling Mountain, Va., February 9, 1864.

CAPTAIN: I have the honor to submit the following report of the reconnaissance of the 6th instant:

At 7 a. m., in obedience to orders from corps headquarters, this regiment took up its line of march with the brigade in the direction of Morton's Ford, the vicinity of which was reached between 10 and 11 o'clock. Here the column halted while a detachment from the One hundred and twenty-fifth New York Volunteers, led by Captain R. S. Seabury, assistant adjutant-general Third Brigade, was sent forward to seize the ford and force a passage, which having been accomplished, the column moved forward and effected a crossing with considerable difficulty, owing to the strong current and depth of water (which reached the waists of the men) and the steep and slippery banks. After crossing, the regiment moved forward with the brigade and took possession of an eminence about three-fourths of a mile southeast from the ford, on which were a house and out-buildings. We were ordered, in case of an attack, to occupy and hold this house and out-buildings at all hazards. About 3 p. m. the regiment was ordered to support that portion of the skirmish line held by the Thirty-ninth New York Volunteers on the left of our line. The regiment remained in position as a reserve until about 5 p. m., when the skirmishers of the enemy, having been heavily re-enforced, moved forward and commenced a rapid firing. The regiment immediately deployed and returned the fire with such effect that though the enemy outnumbered us 3 to 1 his advance was stopped, and he was held in check until night put an end to the conflict. About midnight, in obedience to orders received through Colonel Crandell, of the One hundred and twenty-fifth New York Volunteers, I withdrew the regiment and recrossed the Rapidan.

Throughout the whole affair the conduct of both officers and men was such as to merit my highest approbation. Though suffering severely from cold, wet, and fatigue they performed every duty and faced danger with a zeal and courage worthy of their past reputation. Although subjected from the commencement to the end of the fight to an enfilading fire from the right and left, besides a direct fire from the front, our loss was only 1 wounded and 2 missing.

I am, captain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

I. M. LUSK,

Lieutenant-Colonel, Commanding 111th New York Volunteers.