HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF NEW MEXICO,
Santa Fe, N. Mex., October 4, 1862.

Major General HENRY W. HALLECK,

General-in-Chief of the Armies of the United States,

Washington, D. C.:

MY DEAR GENERAL: Some time when you have more leisure than you have now, you may feel an interest to know how the California troops got through the desert, what they accomplished, &c. It is a meager, bloodless record, yet it is one of much hard work, of many privations, and as the times go, of but little credit, except to the officers and men who did the labor. The last part of the accompanying report to General Wright will call your attention to the claims of Colonel West and First Lieuts. John b. Shinn and Franklin Harwood. Last summer I wrote to General Wright a letter, marked A, setting forth my wishes to have gentlemen on my personal staff promoted, i. e., Surg. James M. McNulty, whom you know; First Lieutenant Benjamin C. Cutler (nephew to Judge McAllister), my adjutant, and First Lieutenant Lafayette Hammond, my regimental quartermaster. No notice has been taken of my application. I beg, as a slight reward for very hard work in the public service, that First Lieutenant Benjamin C. Cutler, First Infantry California Volunteers, be appointed an assistant adjutant-general of volunteers, to rank as major. He is now assistant adjutant-general of this department. That Surg. James M. McNulty may be appointed a surgeon of volunteers. He is now medical inspector of the Department of New Mexico. That Lafayette Hammond be appointed an assistant quartermaster of volunteers, with the rank of captain. He is now captain of infantry. If this communication should be sent to the Adjutant-General it would be put in a pigeonhole. As it is only to obtain the just dues of some of your old California soldiers, pray overlook the impropriety of my writing direct to you about them. I ask nothing for myself.

I am, general, very respectfully and truly, yours,

JAMES H. CARLETON,

Brigadier-General, Commanding.