Numbers 1. Report of Major Eagleton Carmichael, Fifteenth Illinois Cavalry, commanding expedition.

HELENA, ARK., February 26, 1864.

CAPTAIN: On the 20th, after leaving orders with the officers who were to act in conjunction with me, I embarked on the Chreek and left Helena at 5 p. m. I arrived at the mouth of White River at 2 o'clock. I had the stock taken ashore there and fed. Re-embarked and started up White at daylight, 21st instant, arriving at the Bay Landing at 8 p. m. We then disembarked and went into camp. I sent out 20 men under Lieutenant Fisher for the purpose of visiting some houses where there was likely to be some soldiers. They returned without learning or effecting anything. We marched at daylight on the 22nd, passed Murrell's, taking a westerly direction up the bay as far as the Widow Jackson's. I learned that a company of rebels camped near Captain Mayo's. One arriving there I found there was no enemy in the country in arms.

From thence I went to Pointer's, and from thence to Plamerton's. Found a blacksmith shop our in the woods and destroyed it. I them proceeded to Colonel Boyce's; dividing the force, sending them on different roads with orders to meet me at Boyce's. I there captured J. A. McMannis, alias Anderson Plamerton, private, Davis' company; had 1 horse and saddle; no arms. I ordered Colonel Boyce to report to headquarters at Helena. I brought from there 1 mule to mount one of my lieutenants whose horse had become lame. I then went to Widow Mayo's, learning that I could get some information there, but on arriving I learned nothing of importance. I then proceeded to Dr. Hendricks'. I there found a wounded soldier belonging to the One hundred and twenty-sixth Illinois Infantry, borrowed a mule of the doctor to mount him, and proceeded to Mr. Light foot's, and camped for the night. After leaving Boyce's captured Lieutenant B. F. Thomason, Davis' company; had a horse and saddle, 2 horse-pistols. William A. Ward, private, Davis' company, had a horse and saddle. Henry F. Cook, private, Davis' company, had nothing.

Left Lightfoot's at sunrise on the 23rd, dividing the command, and proceeded by different roads to Buck's Point; from thence by Higginbotham's, string the lower Little Rock road at Brown's. I captured Higginbotham at his house. He is a private of Casteel's company; had a horse, saddle, and carbine; also captured J. A. Brewer, private Company I, Twenty-fourth Texas Infantry, and Joseph E. Terry, private Company K, Twenty-fourth Texas Infantry. They had nothing. From Brown's I sent detachment to the rogers and Bonner Settlement. They captured J. H. Rogers, private, Davis' company. They brought in 3 mules belonging to a rebel, one Willis Macon. I proceeded thence to Simms' plantation in the Skafe Settlement, fed there, and thence by Humphrey's to Trenton. I then detached Lieutenant Chase with 20 men and the prisoners to go to Helena, with orders for Captain King to join me with his command at Colonel Taylor's. I then proceeded to that point, and camped for the night. About 11 o'clock I heard a volley fired in a northeasterly direction from my camp. I ordered the command to mount and form, but hearing no more firing I supposed the detachment, which was ordered to be on the road from Wallace's Ferry to Thomas' Mill, were in ambush, and had fired at some straggling rebel who had undertaken to run the gauntlet. I order my men into quarters again. About 3 a. m. the command under Captain King joined me, and reported that the post under Lieutenant Campbell had surprised, and that the enemy was out of reach for the night.

At daylight on the 24th, we marched in the direction of the Thomas' Mill post, that we might strike the trail of the rebels. I found that they had left in different directions, in order that their trail might not be easily discovered. I, however, found it, and followed them about 25 miles, crossing Big Creek at the mouth of Spring Creek. I then struck the Spring Creek road, and followed on until I ascertained that they were marching very fast, and that we were not gaining on them. I then concluded it was useless to pursue farther unless I had had rations to have kept up the pursuit for several days. I returned by the way of the Paradise road to Dr. Lander's, where I camped for the night, forage being scarce there.

I marched at 4 o'clock on the morning of the 25th, and returned to Helena, by the way of La Grange, without feeding or breakfasting, being without rations. On the 24th, I captured Roach, private of Anderson's company; had a horse and saddle and old shotgun, which I destroyed. I arrested Thomason, citizen, who was reported to me as being always ready to carry information whenever our scouts are out; very disloyal.

The guard sent in from Trenton with prisoners, under command of Lieutenant Chase, captured M. M. Casteel, private Casteel's company. Had a horse, saddle, and broken shotgun, which is abandoned. Captain Wier turned over to Lieutenant Chase Major C. H. Carlton, Fifteenth-Arkansas Infantry, and Captain C. L. Moore, same regiment, each having horse and saddle. Captain King turned over Richard Bronw, private, Company E, Fifth Mississippi Cavalry; he had a horse and saddle. The horses and saddles are all turned over to post quartermaster.

Owing to a number of the men being dismounted at the post that was surprised, I was obliged to press horses and mules for them to ride in. I would therefore respectfully request that I may be allowed to return all those to loyal owners.

The accompanying reports* of Captains King and Wier will show what was done under their immediately commands. I take great pleasure in saying that Captain Wier rendered important service during the expedition.

On the post that was surprised there was a gross neglect of duty, and as soon as I can find out who is to blame I will report in writing.

The foregoing report is very respectfully submitted,

E. CARMICHAEL,

Major, Commanding Expedition.

Captain T. C. MEATYARD,

Assistant Adjutant-General.