Iraq anniversary: inside Baghdad, a city still scarred by war

Ten years on, the worthiness of the invasion remains a murky moral question. Saddam may have gone, but what have Iraqis gained? David Blair reports from Baghdad.

Long concrete blast barriers made of ugly slabs thread across Baghdad, protecting public buildings and lining arterial roads, defining the post-invasion city as surely as the Berlin Wall made its mark in the Cold War.

As in Berlin, some have been painted with flowers to relieve the drabness. Ten years after the Anglo-American invasion, Baghdad remains a capital visibly scarred by its traumas.

Scarcely any country since 1945 has suffered more grievously than Iraq - and most of that bloodshed was inflicted during the rule of Saddam Hussein.

In the West, the question of whether it was worth deposing him seems to have a clear answer. The public and politicians alike in America and Britain would mostly answer with an unequivocal "no".

In Baghdad, however, Iraqis tend to qualify whatever opinion they hold. Having endured the ordeal of the last decade, they also know that the alternative would have been many more years of Saddam.

They do not voice simple moral judgements. Iraqis who abhor the invasion tend to add that Saddam deserved to go.

Meanwhile, those who believe the intervention was right always stress the egregious mistakes that America and Britain made in the aftermath.

"Saddam deprived me of the woman I was going to marry," said one former official in the old regime, adding that his fiancé disappeared into one of the dictator's jails. "But look at what we have now. Can you, a visitor, walk down the street alone? There is no security. I say to the Americans, take back your democracy and give us our security."

On the other hand, Sarmad al-Taee, a senior Iraqi commentator at "Al-Mada", a daily newspaper, said: "I think it [the invasion] was right because we had no choice. Saddam was a barbarian."

But he immediately added: "They [the US and Britain] committed many mistakes, but there was no alternative solution. They were painful mistakes, but they were necessary because they saved us from Saddam."

Others who recoil from the invasion still see American influence as necessary to steer Iraqi politics away from sectarian deadlock.

"The result of changing the regime was very expensive for the Iraqi people - perhaps more lives were lost than the Americans expected," said Noura Salem al-Bajali, an MP from the opposition Iraqiya bloc. "But if the Americans stayed and helped us to fight sectarianism and corruption, the result will be much better."

In Baghdad, there are no easy judgements or strident opinions.

Other Western perceptions also look more questionable from inside Iraq. One common view is that Saddam's downfall was a strategic bonus for Iran, ridding the country of its main foe and allowing the birth of a Shia-led government in Baghdad, naturally sympathetic to its co-religionists in Tehran. Iran, on this view, was the real winner of the Iraq war.

True, Iran has more influence on daily politics inside Iraq than any other country. Many ministers spent years in exile in Iran during Saddam's era - and their doors are always open to Iranian emissaries.

Yet Iraq cancelled an Iranian-mediated arms deal with Russia last year. Nouri al-Maliki, the prime minister, halted the £2.6 billion transaction under pressure from Iraq's parliament. "It was the first time the Iraqi parliament stopped something that Iran wanted," said Mr Taee.

Moreover, Iraq has overtaken its neighbour to become the second biggest oil producer in Opec, pumping 3 million barrels per day and aiming to treble its output by 2020.

The rebirth of Iraq's oil industry strikes at the central pillar of the Iranian economy. Every extra barrel that Iraq produces exerts downward pressure on oil prices and deprives Iran of desperately-needed revenue. By resolutely expanding his country's oil output, Mr Maliki is directly working against Iran's interests.

The Shia prime minister is also engaged in a bitter struggle with his domestic opponents. This has become nakedly sectarian, with Mr Maliki purging Sunni members of his government, notably the former vice-president, Tariq al-Hashemi.

But Mr Maliki is opposed by two Shia parties, who work alongside the Sunnis. In January, parliament defied him by passing a law to impose term limits on the prime minister. This was designed to prevent any re-emergence of dictatorship.

Iraq is not a democracy, said Mr Taee, but the country has "political pluralism" and this could eventually lead to democracy. "We are in the middle - this is half time," he says. "We need another 10 years to reach a political balance."

As Iraq gropes towards that political balance, there remains a sense of daily emergency on the streets of Baghdad. The country is less violent than during the bloodiest years of 2006-07, but four bombs last Thursday reduced the justice ministry to a burning wreck.

Checkpoints obstruct every main street, manned by guards wearing three or four different uniforms. Left unspoken is the awkward truth: the various units are deployed to check on each other, as well as passers-by. No-one knows who in the security forces can be trusted.

I first came to this city in 2002 when Saddam was in power. Then, minders from the information ministry tracked my every move, but I could go anywhere without risk. Today, I cannot walk unaccompanied for 100 yards.

Yet there was a paradox about Saddam's Baghdad: I was safe, but Iraqis were not. They were afraid even to utter to their leader's name, save to offer ritual praise.

They also inhabited a capital stuck in a time warp, where mobile phones and satellite television were banned and hardly anyone used the internet. Today, by contrast, Iraq has embraced the world of universal mobile phones and hundreds of satellite channels.

Would it have been better to stay under suffocating dictatorship? No Westerner is entitled to say to Iraqis: "instead of fighting the war, we should have left you to Saddam's tender mercies". Equally, no outsider can decree that the death of 116,000 Iraqi civilians since 2003 was somehow worthwhile.

Only Iraqis can pass moral judgement. And their views are often more complicated than you might expect.
