ETIHAD CARGO AND SWISSPORT AGREE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP DEAL

Etihad Cargo, the fast-moving cargo division of United Arab Emirates' carrier, Etihad Airways has certified international ground handling services company Swissport International Ltd as its first Preferred Handling Partner (PHP). 

Only companies who meet the high service performance standards of Etihad Cargo and can assure consistency in quality across their regional operations can be certified a Preferred Handling Partner. 

Etihad Cargo has specific performance benchmarks in the areas of safety, security management, regulatory compliance, training, IT interfaces, business planning and risk management. 

The two-year PHP certification with Swissport is focused initially on six Etihad Cargo stations; Athens, Geneva, Larnaca, Nairobi, Seoul and Toronto. 

Etihad Cargo hopes to expand cargo operations with Swissport at other destinations over time, in addition to enhancing cargo handling at more than 100 off-line Swissport destinations which Etihad Cargo offers in conjunction with partners. 

Kevin Knight, Chief Strategy and Planning Officer at Etihad Airways, said: "Swissport is world-renowned and has an enviable track record in providing high-quality and efficient ground services to cargo operators. 

Swissport International Ltd. and Etihad Cargo are both members of the International Air Transport Association's Cargo 2000 (C2K) industry group. The group's mission is to create and implement a C2K quality standard and management system by bringing about greater efficiencies, improving customer service and reducing costs in the worldwide air cargo industry. 

Etihad Cargo serves 86 destinations internationally and operates a fleet of two Boeing B777F, one Boeing 747-400F, two Airbus A330-200F and one Airbus A300-600F. To ensure capacity stays ahead of demand, Etihad Cargo will take delivery of four additional freighters in 2013 and 2014, comprising one Boeing B777F, one Boeing 747-400ERF (wet-leased from KLM Cargo) and two Airbus A330-200F. – Emirates News Agency, WAM 
