The Bank Crash in Ecuador

Ecuador news - Quito, October 17 (Andes) . - The Banker's presidential nomination Guillermo Lasso removes memories of linking banks with political power and its disastrous consequences: a bank holiday which froze $ 1,840 million of deposits and the forced exodus of nearly three million Ecuadorians. 

On the highway leading to the coast, in the province of Guayas, during the weekend that could see some fences in which the banker Lasso appreciated by the ousted President Jamil Mahuad, in whose government decreed a freeze on deposits. Lasso and created, the political group that sponsored his candidacy, rejected this and called it a smear campaign. 

Guillermo Lasso

The banker, 55, has demarcated responsibility for the bank holiday arguing that during his duties in Economic superminister regime Mahuad signed only two things: his inauguration and his resignation. Lasso was linked to the government of Mahuad thanks to her friend Ana Lucia Armijos, who then served as Minister of Government. 

Bank holiday The financial crisis originated in the government of Sixto Duran Ballen and Alberto Dahik, proponents of neoliberalism in Ecuador. In 1994 created the Financial Institutions Act, which liberalized interest rates and allowed the free movement of capital and the associated increase in appropriations, which proliferated unchecked. 

This led to speculation, capital flight and bank failures. To which are added other factors such as El Nino, the international financial crisis and the collapse in oil prices ($ 6.30 per barrel). However, Mahuad policies further exacerbated the crisis. In 1998, the financial power became apparent. 

Bankers as Fernando Aspiazu financed campaign Jamil Mahuad and others were part of his cabinet. Policies were established "bank bailout" that allowed the delivery of credit to the banking millionaires, through public institutions. In Congress, the famous "bulldozer", formed by the Christian Social Party and Popular Democracy, created laws and institutions (such as AGD) for the state to take over the debts of private banks. 

On March 7, 1998, Mahuad outlined his strategy team close to schedule banks deposit freeze. On November 30, we completed the law of the Deposit Guarantee Agency (AGD) which finally came into effect on December 1 of that year. On December 2, the Banking Board placed Filanbanco restructuring process, ie passed to the State under the command of a Deposit Insurance Agency was born out of resources, but with a commitment to take charge of the bailout of all banks fell into crisis. 

On December 3, the AGD requested the Ministry of Finance to issue domestic debt bonds to pay claims of Filanbanco with the Central Bank and to capitalize on that bank, with an initial amount of $ 540 million. That same day, Finance notarized bond issue debt for the AGD, triangulating the operation with the Central Bank to avoid bankruptcy Filanbanco after catastrophic handling of the Isaias brothers-Dassum. 

On December 4, the Banking Board appointed and sworn in the new management team of Filanbanco, replacing their former owners (brothers Isaiah Dassum). On 5 December, the state began Filanbanco rescue and, in parallel, the output of Isaiah is headline news in the press in Ecuador. Between December 8 and March 12, 1999, Ecuadorians found closed banks, and from Monday 15 March braved the freezing of all or part of their bank deposits, under Presidential Decree 685. 

The following week, the Banco del Progreso, with more than 750,000 customers, closed its doors as its primary, Fernando Aspiazu Seminar, accused the government of Mahuad for obstructing the delivery of a loan from the Central Bank. Banks continued to fall like dominoes. Within months, the financial system was halved. Figures Mahuad's government froze $ 1,840 million in the private banking system; 681.1 million in offshore banking and an estimated $ 145 million held in financial companies, cooperatives and mutuals. 

The state intervened in banks Financorp, Finagro, Azuay, West, Progreso, Bancomex, Credit, Bancounión, Popular, Previsora, Pacific, among others. Freezing savings cost the country a loss of 8,600 million and the migration crisis caused about three million Ecuadorians to Europe and the United States. In 1999, inflation soared to 60%, unemployment reached 14.7%. 

The Sucre depreciation increased by 190%. Addition caused a net outflow of capital from 422 million dollars in 1998 and 891 million in 1999. 685 The decree ordered the freeze for one year, 50% of the monetary deposits in Sucres greater than two million dollars in deposits that exceeded the $ 500.
